DENHA PROVIDED
MUX.
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S HERE, MR.
SOBHI HERE.
COMMISSIONER AMINALS HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HAS NOTED
THAT SHE WILL BE A LITTLE LATE
TO TONIGHT'S EVENING
COMMISSIONER HERE COMMISSIONER
CLARK HERE, COMMISSIONER WISCH
HERE AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST
WELCOMING NEW COMMISSIONER
JULIE WHETHER IT BE HERE GREAT.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO ALSO WELCOME THE
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE AND
IF YOU WANT TO SAY A FEW WORDS
OF INTRODUCING YOURSELF.
ALL RIGHT.
SO FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON'T
KNOW ME, I THINK SOME OF YOU
KNOW ME OUT IN THE AUDIENCE AND
SOME DON'T.
BUT MY NAME IS JULIE WETHERBEE.
I THIS IS MY SECOND TIME ON
PLANNING COMMISSION.
I WAS ALSO ON PLANNING
COMMISSION FROM TWENTY SIXTEEN
TO TWENTY NINETEEN A LITTLE BIT
OF MY BACKGROUND.
I GREW UP IN ANN ARBOR.
MY PARENTS ACTUALLY MET IN A
BOARDING HOUSE THAT MY AUNT RAN
ON HILL STREET SO IT KIND
OF GOES BACK A WAYS.
I WENT TO COLLEGE IN BOULDER.
I LIVED IN BOSTON, MOVED BACK
TO ANN ARBOR OF THAT CIRCUITOUS
THING THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
ANN ARBOR DO.
I DO WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY.
I LIVE IN AN OLD HOUSE DOWNTOWN
IN THE AIR FORCE DISTRICT WHERE
THERE'S A LOT OF DEVELOPMENT.
SO I'M VERY FAMILIAR WITH SORT
OF DEVELOPMENT AND THE EFFECTS
OF IT GOOD AND BAD.
I WAS ON THE RNC COMMITTEE
TWICE STARTING IN TWENTY IN
SORRY 2009 WAS THE FIRST
MEETING OF THE RNC COMMITTEE
AND I WAS ON THAT TO OUR POLICY
COMMITTEES FROM TWENTY NINE TO
TWENTY THIRTEEN.
SO WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT OUR
POLICY FOR A REALLY LONG TIME
AND WAS ON PLANNING COMMISSION
AND ZEBA FROM TWENTY SIXTEEN
TWENTY NINETEEN SO I'M HAPPY TO
BE HERE BACK.
I'M PLANNING.
THANK YOU AND WELCOME BACK.
THANK.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
REVERSAL OF ITEMS NINE EIGHT
AND NINE B MAY I HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA WITH THIS
AMENDMENT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SIR WHITES, IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY I
OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES ME I
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES OF THE JULY 18TH AND
AUGUST FIRST TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MINUTES MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS SECONDED BY
HER MILLS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I
OPPOSED MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP WE'RE GOING TO REPORTS
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS.
SO THIS IS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER OFFICERS AND
COMMITTEES COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
IS NOT HERE YET.
SO MR. LENNOX OR DO YOU HAVE
IT'S QUITE ALL RIGHT.
I CAN ACTUALLY SWITCH IT AROUND
COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON HAVE ANYTHING
TO ONCE I'M ALREADY UP.
SO BRING BACK COMMISSIONER
ADDITIONAL BE ARRIVING A LITTLE
BIT LATE BUT A COUPLE
OF HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT I'M SURE SHE WOULD
HAVE LIKED TO SHARE.
WE HAD THE PROPOSED ONE
AMENDMENTS TO AUTO RELATED USES
WERE APPROVED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL.
THEY DID MAKE ONE MODIFICATION
.
THEY STRUCK THE SPECIFIC USE
STANDARDS THAT PROHIBITED THE
STORAGE OF AUTO REPAIR VEHICLES
OUTSIDE IN THE C TO B AND C ONE
DISTRICTS.
BUT WITHOUT WITH THAT BEING THE
ONLY MODIFICATION, THE CHANGES
WERE APPROVED.
THE THE SOUTHBOUND REZONING
SITE PLAN AND STREET VACATION
WAS APPROVED AND THE PROPOSED
VACATION ON MOSTLY AT THE
FORMER EARLY SITE WAS ALSO
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL LAST
EVENING.
YEAH, I DON'T PROFESS TO BE AN
EXPERT.
THE CITY COUNCIL ALSO PASSED
THE ORDINANCE THIS ENERGY
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT FOR THE
SALE OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY IN
THE CITY.
IT WILL BE PRETTY ALONG PHASED
IN IMPLEMENTATION AND
ENFORCEMENT.
HOWEVER, IF THAT'S SOMETHING
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT, I'M HAPPY TO ARRANGE A
PRESENTATION OR SOME MORE
INFORMATION TO YOU IN THE
FUTURE.
AND THE CITY ALSO BOUGHT AN
ELECTION CENTER LAST NIGHT SO
THAT WAS KIND OF COOL.
THANK YOU, MR. LUNNER.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
FOR COMMITTEE LIAISON HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
OK, WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
SORRY.
SURE.
QUITE CLEARLY FROM A PLANNING
MANAGER PERSPECTIVE I JUST WANT
TO PROVIDE A QUICK UPDATE THE
STEPS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
SO I THINK IT WAS REPORTED
PREVIOUSLY THAT COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE DID MEET AND
HELPED ME REFINE IN APPLICATION
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE GOING
OUT TO THE PUBLIC TO INVITE
APPLICATIONS TO SERVE ON A
STEERING COMMITTEE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I'VE GOT THAT SORT OF DIGITALLY
THAT I'M WORKING ON JUST
GETTING SOME OUTREACH MATERIALS
SET FOR THAT WE WILL BE PUSHING
THAT HEAVILY AT A COUPLE
OF UPCOMING POP UP EVENTS.
COMMISSIONER.
SO THEY MIGHT BE SHARING SOME
INFORMATION ABOUT KNOWING ABOUT
SOME OF THOSE.
ANOTHER ONE WOULD BE THE GREEN
FAIR ON THE TWENTY SECOND.
SO THAT'S GOING TO BE TWO GREAT
OPPORTUNITIES FOR US TO BE SORT
OF SHARING THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO APPLY TO BE ON A
STEERING COMMITTEE MORE BROADLY
FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I WANT TO SHARE THAT THE
TRANSPLANT TEAM WAS IN TOWN
FROM PHILADELPHIA LAST WEEK AND
WE CONDUCTED A SERIES
OF STAKEHOLDER INTERVIEWS.
THEY WERE PRETTY FOCUSED AT
THIS POINT ON ELECTED OFFICIALS
AND STAFF.
ON NEXT STEP IS A LOT
OF CONVERSATION WITH USE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND SHARING
OUR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT WITH THE
COMMUNITY AT LARGE.
THIS IS AN 18 PROCESS.
I'VE GOTTEN A COUPLE
OF INQUIRIES PEOPLE THAT ARE
REALLY CONCERNED.
I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR WITH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
PUBLIC I HAVE NO INTENTION
OF DRAFTING A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN BASED ON A COUPLE
OF INTERVIEWS LAST WEEK THIS IS
GOING TO BE A LONG PROCESS.
I HAVE A LOT OF OPPORTUNITIES
TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK TO THE CITY
AND THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON
THAT DOCUMENT.
SO THAT IS UNDERWAY AS WELL.
WE'LL BE WORKING WITH THAT
SUBCOMMITTEE AGAIN.
THE NEXT STEP WE'RE GOING TO BE
TALKING ABOUT A RUBRIC ABOUT
WHAT WHAT A STEERING COMMITTEE
SUCCESSFUL STEERING COMMITTEE
LOOKS LIKE AND THEN I WILL ALSO
BE USING THAT GROUP TO PROPOSE
A SELECTION OF A STEERING
COMMITTEE THAT WILL BE
ULTIMATELY BROUGHT TO THE FULL
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
APPOINTMENT TO THAT.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT,
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS NINE STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE A
RAISE HAND FEATURE A VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING
IDX NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED THEIR HANDS USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
MR. GODDARD?
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
WE CAN GATHER TWENTY EIGHT
HAMAKO COURT.
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME BACK
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU REMEMBER
BUT FOUR YEARS TO HEAR YOUR
LAST MEETING AND THANK YOU FOR
ALL THAT I LEARNED FROM HEARING
YOUR DELIBERATIONS AT THIS
PARTY.
I STILL MEAN THAT AND REALLY
GLAD THAT YOU'RE BACK.
SO AT LAST MONTH'S ENERGY
COMMITTEE MEETING, DID ENGINEER
MIKE WITKOWSKY SPOKE ON GRID
AVAILABILITY AS YOU KNOW, NEW
PROJECT SPECIALLY ALL ELECTRIC
ARE RUNNING UP AGAINST CAPACITY
OUT OF DELIBERATE NEGLECT.
DETI HAS DONE VERY LITTLE IN
THE LAST FIFTY YEARS TO BOOST
CAPACITY IN ANN ARBOR.
MOST OF THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
HERE IS FOUR POINT EIGHT
KILOVOLT THAT'S THE SO-CALLED
PRIMARY CIRCUIT THAT GOES OUT
FROM SUBSTATIONS TO
NEIGHBORHOODS STARTING IN
NINETEEN FIFTIES NEW PRIMARIES
HAVE ALL BEEN THIRTEEN POINT
TWO KILOVOLT BUT ANN ARBOR
STILL ALMOST ENTIRELY FOUR
POINT EIGHT I DON'T HAVE THE
WHOLE PICTURE BUT THE
EXCEPTIONS ARE AROUND BRIARWOOD
WHICH HAS THIRTEEN POINT TWO
CONNECTION POINT TO THE
REGIONAL GRID AND THE AREA NEAR
THE SERVICE CENTER ON BROADWAY
WHERE GTE HAS REBUILT ITS
BUCKLERS SUBSTATION AND THEN UP
DIVISION STREET FROM THERE.
BUT ELSEWHERE IT'S STILL THE
OLD FOUR POINT EIGHT WHICH IS A
BIG REASON FOR OUR OUTAGE
PROBLEM WHICH IS ANOTHER
SUBJECT ANYWAY YOU TRIPLE
CAPACITY WHEN YOU REPLACE FOUR
POINT THIRTEEN POINT TWO MAYBE
BECAUSE I WAS CONSIDERING
PUBLIC POWER MONOPOLY UTILITY
IS NOW FINALLY TALKING FOR
CONVERSION BUT YOU CAN'T JUST
REWIRE TO THIRTEEN TO YOU HAVE
TO REBUILD ALL YOUR SUBSTATIONS
DTD PLAN HAS THREE PARTS EACH
ONE COSTING 40 TO 60 MILLION.
SWITKOWSKI SAID THIS WOULD TAKE
TEN TO 15 YEARS TO COMPLETE.
I GOT MY DOUBTS THE MPAC MUST
APPROVE THE RATES TO PAY FOR IT
IN POOR AREAS AROUND AREAS
AROUND DETROIT MAY TAKE
PRIORITY EITHER WAY OUR
BUILDING BOOM WILL BE LONG OVER
BY THEN.
WHAT CAN WE DO ABOUT CAPACITY
NOW?
DEVELOPER CAN HEAT WITH GAS AND
THEY'RE DOING IT WHICH LOWERS
ELECTRIC DEMAND BUT THAT'S JUST
INSANE IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
FOR CLIMATE REASONS THE BEST
SOLUTION IS FOR NEW PROJECTS TO
BE SELF-SUFFICIENT, MAXING OUT
SOLAR GENERATION AND ENERGY
STORAGE AND USING GEOTHERMAL
ALL POSSIBLE BASICALLY BEING
YOUR OWN MINI POWER PLANT AND
THE VIRIDIAN OR SOUTHTOWN MODEL
SUCH DISTRIBUTED ENERGY REALLY
IS THE FUTURE BECAUSE THE
CENTRALIZED POWER PLANT MODEL
IS OBSOLETE FOR CLIMATE REASONS
AND THE TRANSMISSION GRID CAN'T
HANDLE ALL THE RENEWABLE ENERGY
WE NEED RIGHT NOW THERE'S A
HUGE BOTTLENECK BUT THE AVERAGE
DEVELOPER MENTALLO IS
COMPLETELY UNEQUIPPED FOR THIS
NEW DISTRIBUTED REALITY AND SO
IS OUR ZONING CODE .
SO UNFORTUNATELY IT FALLS ON
YOU.
THE ZERO PLAN PAGE FORTY EIGHT
INCLUDES THE FOLLOWING
ASSUMPTION QUOTE ONGOING
CONSTRUCTION FROM TWENTY TWENTY
TO TWENTY THIRTY DONE ALREADY
THERE'S NO TIMER HERE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER IS THERE
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
MR. CHAIR THERE IS ONE HIM
RAISE JAMES THE MORE YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU AND I ASSUME YOU ALL
CAN HEAR ME ARE HEARD.
WE CAN PUT IT.
THANK YOU.
JUST TO FOLLOW UP ON MR. GARBER
SAID THIS IS SOMETHING
OF SPECIAL CONCERN AND I DO
HOPE THE COMMISSION DOES LOOK
AT THAT IN TERMS
OF SELF-SUFFICIENCY SUFFICIENCY
OF NEW PROJECTS.
WE'VE GOT OUR SHORTAGE AND
WE'VE HAD SOME SEVERE PROBLEMS
IN TERMS OF OUR PROPERTY HAS
BEEN CAUSED A LOT OF PERSONAL
DISTRESS.
SO IN THE LIGHT OF ALL THE MANY
OTHER THINGS AS YOU DO AS YOU
LOOK AT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ON I WANT TO SPEAK ON SOMETHING
THAT IS GOING TO BE ABOUT A
SITE SPECIFIC COMMENT BUT I
THINK IT WOULD BE MORE GENERIC
.
IT APPEARS THAT IN ADDITION TO
THINGS WE HAVE SET UP OUR TERMS
OF THE CLIMATE ISSUE WE NEED TO
THINK ABOUT OUR MATURE TREES
AND YOU HAVE ALSO TONIGHT CALLS
FOR THE REMOVAL OF FIVE
LANDMARK TREES AND IT'S ALMOST
AS THE LAST TREE STANDS IN
EITHER TAKEN BY PARK OR
OPPRESSIVE AND THOSE ARE
PARTICULARLY VALUABLE NOW MUCH
OF THE WORK THAT HAS TO BE DONE
IS TO BE DONE BY ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION AND OTHER OTHER
COMMITTEES.
BUT I REALLY ASK YOU TO WORK
HARD.
YOU ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT
DENSITY IN THIS CITY.
YOU'RE PASSIONATE ABOUT GROWTH
THIS YEAR.
GIVE MY DOGS THEY FEEL RATHER
STRONGLY ABOUT THAT BUT
BASICALLY WE NEED TO WORK WITH
A PROJECT THAT WE NEED TO WORK
WITH THE NATURAL FEATURES WE
NEED TO DEVELOP THE NATURAL
FEATURES OVERLAY THAT FROM OUR
NATURAL FEATURES.
AUDRA'S WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING
THAT WORKS WITH THE LAND AND
WORK WITH OUR NATURAL FEATURES
RATHER THAN OPPOSING IT.
AND RIGHT NOW I REALIZE YOUR
WORK ON THE ISSUE OF DENSITY
BUT WE NEED TO THINK ABOUT
OTHER FACTORS TO IT.
I JUST DON'T SEE THIS
COMMISSION WORK IN THAT
DIRECTION.
PATHOLOGY.
SO MY JOB SHE FEELS
PASSIONATELY ABOUT THAT AND
WITH THAT I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
TIME.
HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE ON THE
RUTLEY YES.
COLOR ENDIAN ONE SIX EIGHT YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
ATLANTIC OCEAN
YOU MAY NEED TO
PRESS STAR NINE
STAR
OR STAR
SIX
.
GO AHEAD.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES YOU CAN GET A NEIGHBORHOOD
OR MAKE IT LOOK LIKE A PRIVATE
ROOM WITHOUT AND THIS IS
EXACTLY RELATED TO THE TOPIC
WHICH I JUST LEARNED WHEN THEY
MENTIONED THAT IT WOULD BE IN
YOUR CONTRACT WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH
WILL BE THEN MAKE YOU OBJECTION
.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT MAKES SENSE
FOR ME TO SPEAK BUT THIS IS MY
HOME OPPORTUNITY.
EXCUSE ME.
I BELIEVE THIS TOPIC IS ON THE
AGENDA AND IF WE COULD ACTUALLY
SOLVE DURING THE ACTUAL
BUSINESS ITSELF THAT WOULD BE
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
I AND THE OTHER CALLERS THERE
ARE NO MORE CALLERS AT THE SAME
.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE ARE GOING TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT REGULAR
MEETING STAFF.
YES, THERE ARE QUITE A FEW FOR
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
19TH.
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN PM THE
FIRST OF WHICH IS THREE SEVEN
ZERO ONE AND THREE SEVEN ONE
SIX THREE SEVEN ONE THREE
RIVERSIDE DRIVE WHICH IS AN
ANNEXATION AND ZONING FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
IT'S A REQUEST TO ANNEX TWO
PARCELS TOTALING POINT SEVEN
FOUR ACRES IN OUR TOWNSHIP TO
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND ZONE
TO OUR BE SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING.
NEXT IS THIRTY FIVE TWENTY
GREEN COURT WHICH IS A PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT TEXT AMENDMENT
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THE PROPOSED AMENDED
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WILL
EXPAND THE PERMITTED PRINCIPAL
USES OF THE PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT.
THE PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES
WOULD ADD MEDICAL AND DENTAL
OFFICES, EXPAND THE DEFINITION
OF HOTEL AND PERMIT DEVELOPMENT
OF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
HOUSING WHICH IS CURRENTLY
EXCLUDED.
THE DISTRICT INCLUDES THIRTY
FIVE POINT TWO ACRES.
NEXT WOULD BE 1710 DEVAR AND
ROAD, THE VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR
AMENDED SITE PLAN AND REZONING
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THIS IS AN AMENDMENT TO THE
APPROVED SITE PLAN THAT
INCLUDES REZONING OF TWO
PARCELS FROM TOWNSHIP TO HOUR
FOR A MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL AND ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY ADDITIONAL RESIDENTIAL
UNITS LONG DUVAN WITH AN
AMENITIES PARK AREA AND
ADJACENT PARKING.
THE TOTAL UNITS PROPOSED WILL
BE SIX HUNDRED AND FOUR UNITS
ON THE SEVENTY EIGHT POINT FIVE
ACRE SITE.
THE PARCELS TO BE RESOLVED ARE
TWENTY FIVE TWENTY AND TWENTY
FIVE FORTY PONTIAC TRAIL.
THE TOTAL AREA OF REZONING IS
FIVE POINT NINE ACRES AND
FINALLY AN AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF ANN
ARBOR CITY CODE RELATED TO
PREMIUM'S THESE ARE AMENDMENTS
TO SECTIONS FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN POINT FOUR MULTIPLE
FAMILY ZONING DISTRICTS AND
FIVE POINT EIGHTEEN POINT SIX
PREMIUM'S TO PROPOSE TO
ELIMINATE ALL PREMIUM FLOOR
AREA OPTIONS OFFERED IN SECTION
FIVE POINT EIGHTEEN POINT SIX
TO SEE THE NORMAL FLOOR AREA
RATIOS IN CERTAIN ZONING
DISTRICTS AND ELIMINATE THE
MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA RATIO
STANDARDS IN THE D ONE DOWNTOWN
CORE AND D TO DOWNTOWN
INTERFACE DISTRICT PROVIDED IN
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DESH
FOUR OF THE UDC WITH THESE
AMENDMENTS NO ADDITIONAL FLOOR
AREA BEYOND THE NORMAL LIMITS
WILL BE OFFERED AS INCENTIVES
FOR AMENITIES AND DEVELOPMENT
IN THE D ONE AND TWO DISTRICTS
WILL ONLY BE REGULATED BY
MAXIMUM HEIGHT, MINIMUM OR
MAXIMUM SETBACKS AND BUILDING
MASS
REGULATIONS PLUS ANY OTHER
APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS CURRENTLY PROVIDED IN
CODE .
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS SECTION EIGHT A THIS
IS TWENTY EIGHT FIVE BURTON
ROAD.
THIS INCLUDES THE SITE PLAN A
PROPOSAL TO REDUCE THE SIZE THE
CLUBHOUSE BY FIFTY SQUARE FEET,
REVISE ANY PARKING TO COMPLY
WITH CURRENT STANDARDS AND
RELOCATE BARRIER FREE PARKING
SPACES.
I BELIEVE THAT WE BEGIN WITH
PETITIONER PRESENTATION WITH
THE PETITIONER TO COME UP AND
SPEAK GOOD EVENING.
I THINK CHRIS IS GOING TO BE
PULLING UP THE PRESENTATION.
IT'S IT'S UP BUT IT'S NOT ON
THE BIG SCREENS.
OK, SEE MANUFACTURING IS BACK
THERE.
I GOT GROWING ON MY SCREEN.
YOU DON'T YOU KNOW YOU'VE GOT
IT.
IT'S IT'S BEHIND THE CURVE SO
JUST A LITTLE TOO SMALL BIT
OF TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES.
PLEASE HOLD FOR A SECOND.
THANK YOU.
LET ME GET SHEILA IN SHARING
THAT
AMONG THEM.
YEAH, JUST JUST WAIT WE'LL GET
IT UP HERE IN A SECOND.
WHERE DO YOU HAVE THE BANK IS
AND IT'S NOT MINE AND SOON
IT'LL BE ME OK SO I JUST HOPE
YOU DON'T MIND.
I'M SORRY NOTHING GETS
SCREAMING GIVE ME TWO SECONDS
.
HERE'S YOUR
YOU MIGHT BE SAFE
BUT I DON'T I THINK THAT'S
GOING TO FIX AND THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT'S GOING TO GO BACK.
LET'S GO BACK SHARE SCREEN
SHARES OUR FIRST CHRISTMAS
COMES UP OK?
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU STAFF AND THANK YOU
FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
SARIEL REMEMBER TO BRING A
FLASH DRIVE NEXT TIME.
HOPEFULLY THAT MAKES IT EASIER
.
MY NAME'S TED HIRSCH.
I'M WITH MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
WE'RE THE CIVIL ENGINEER FOR
THE PROJECT AND THE THE SITE
PLANNING AMENDMENT.
WE HAVE BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
HOPEFULLY PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD, JUST A FEW
ITEMS THAT WERE OF NOTE.
SO WITH THE ORIGINAL SITE PLAN
,THE INDOOR GATHERING BUILDING
KIND OF A COMMUNITY AREA IN ITS
EARLY CONCEPTUAL STAGES WAS
PROPOSED TO BE A LITTLE BIT
LARGER FOOTPRINT HAVE A COUPLE
MORE OFFICES THINGS THAT
THROUGH DETAILED DESIGN ENDED
UP GETTING KIND OF VALUED OUT
SO THE FOOTPRINT OF THE INDOOR
GATHERING AREA BUILDING GOT
SMALLER.
IT ALL STILL FITS WITHIN THE
LOCATION OF THE ORIGINALLY
APPROVED BUILDING FOOTPRINT
.
AND CHRIS, IF YOU GO TO THE
NEXT SLIDE I CAN GO AHEAD AND
SKIP THAT ONE SO AGAIN, HERE'S
JUST A LITTLE BIT LARGER VIEW
THAT SHOWS THAT THAT REDUCTION
FROM A LITTLE OVER FOUR
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET TO JUST
UNDER TWO THOUSAND THAT ORANGE
OUTLINE SHOWS THE THE ORIGINAL
APPROVED FOOTPRINT THERE IS AN
OUTDOOR PATIO THAT'S INCLUDED
WITH THIS LATEST ITERATION ALL
AGAIN FITS WITHIN THAT SAME
FOOTPRINT.
SO WITH THAT REDUCTION THERE'S
A COVERAGE REDUCTION FEATURE
REDUCTION OPEN SPACE INCREASE
THE FRONT SET BACK DID INCREASE
JUST SLIGHTLY A LITTLE OVER
FOUR FEET AND THEN THERE WAS
SOME SIDEWALK RECONFIGURATION
JUST TO PROVIDE APPROPRIATE
ACCESS TO THOSE RELOCATED
POINTS.
IF YOU CAN GO TO THE NEXT SLIDE
PLEASE.
SO THE TOP LEFT THERE WAS THE
ORIGINAL ITERATION OF THE
BUILDING DESIGN IN ELEVATION
VIEW FLAT ROOF AND AGAIN JUST
KIND OF CONCEPTUAL LEVEL AND
THE NEWLY PROPOSED GOES FROM A
FLAT ROOF TO PITCHED ROOF A
LITTLE BIT MORE DESIGN ELEMENTS
INCORPORATED IN THAT IS THE THE
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
DOCUMENTS PROGRESSED IF WE CAN
HIT THE NEXT SLIDE SECOND ITEM
I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT WAS SOME
PARKING SPACE MODIFICATIONS.
SO THESE ORANGE HIGHLIGHTED
AREAS BASICALLY JUST TAKE
BARRIER VERY FREE PARKING THAT
WAS ORIGINALLY LOCATED A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER AND NORTH LEFT AS
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE PAGE.
SO THESE BARRIER FREE PARKING
SPACES WERE LOCATED A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER WEST ORIGINALLY
KIND OF RIGHT IN FRONT OF THE
MAIN ENTRANCE BUT WITH THE
PROXIMITY OF THE SIDEWALK TO
THE BUILDING KIND OF MADE
THINGS TRICKY TO MAKE THOSE
ACTUALLY BARRIER FREE AND
ACCESSIBLE.
SO MOVING THOSE SPACES DOWN TO
THE EAST WHERE THERE'S A LITTLE
BIT MORE SPACE IN THAT KIND
OF CUT OUT OF THE BUILDING
ALLOWED FOR THE RAMPS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT TO WORK A
LITTLE BIT EASIER WITHOUT KIND
OF CURB THE BACK OF SIDEWALK.
THE SECOND THING THAT WAS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE PARKING
SPACE MODIFICATIONS WAS TO THEN
ALTER THE PLAN TO CONFORM TO
THE CURRENT EV STANDARDS.
SO THE INITIAL TIME OF APPROVAL
THE PLAN, THE CODE , THE EV
CODE REQUIRED A SERIES OF EEVI
INSTALLED CHARGERS ARE AND EVC
SPACES WHEREAS UNDER THIS SITE
PLAN AMENDMENT THE CURRENT
CODE FOR USE WOULD JUST REQUIRE
THE EVA AND EVC SO THAT
MODIFICATION WAS MADE AS WELL.
WE HAD THE NEXT SO THIS WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS REALLY MORE
OF A CONSTRUCTION ITEM AND I'LL
JUST MENTION THAT THIS WAS THIS
AMENDMENT COMES AS CONSTRUCTION
OF THE PROJECT WAS ONGOING.
BURTON ROAD WAS KIND FIRST ON
THE LIST TO MAKE THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS CHANGE IT FROM A
GRAVEL ROAD TO PAVED ROAD WITH
CURB AND GUTTER.
THE ORIGINAL PLAN HAD THIS
INTERSECTION PACKARD ROAD
BASICALLY FITTED OUT WITH A
LEFT TURN LANE FROM BURTON ROAD
THAT WOULD HEAD OUT TO PACKARD
ROAD ONCE CONSTRUCTION GOT
UNDERWAY THERE WERE EXISTING
UTILITIES IN KIND OF SOME
CONSTRAINTS THAT WERE
UNIDENTIFIED.
IT COULDN'T REALLY HAVE BEEN
IDENTIFIED WITHOUT DIGGING
THINGS UP.
SO WITH THE SERIES A NEW
UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WAS GOING IN WITH THE NEW
ROAD TO MAKE GREEN STREETS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT, THERE WERE
SOME PROXIMITY TO EXISTING
WATER MAIN STRUCTURES THAT WERE
KIND OF BURIED THAT WE HAD TO
WORK AROUND TO GET THE
APPROPRIATE SEPARATION'S AND
PART OF THAT THROUGH
COORDINATION WITH THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT WAS TO
IN THE TRANSPORTATION
DEPARTMENT FOR THAT MATTER WAS
A REMOVE THAT CENTER LEFT TURN
LANE.
IT AND FOR ANYONE WHO'S KIND
OF BEEN THROUGH THE HISTORY
OF THIS PROJECT, IT'S BEEN
THROUGH A NUMBER OF ITERATIONS
.
THE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
FELT THAT THAT WAS KIND OF A
LEGACY ITEM THAT WAS PULLED
THROUGH THAT DIDN'T THEY DIDN'T
AGREE NECESSARILY NEEDED TO BE
INCORPORATED.
SO THAT HELPED US PULL IN THE
CURB LINES FROM BOTH SIDES
GETTING THE THE STORM
STRUCTURES AND UTILITIES AWAY
FROM SOME OF THAT EXISTING
UNDERGROUND CONFLICTS THAT WE
RAN INTO.
SO WE FELT THAT THIS SHOULD
JUST BE INCORPORATED INTO THE
SITE PLAN AMENDMENT SINCE WE
HAD ALREADY DRAWN IT UP AND GOT
IT APPROVED AT THE NEXT SLIDE.
I THINK THAT'S IT.
SO YEAH, PRETTY SHORT AND SWEET
KIND OF THE MAIN TWO POINTS FOR
THIS WERE THE THE REDUCTION IN
THE GATHERING SPACE FOOTPRINT
AND THE PARKING MODIFICATION.
SO I'M MORE THAN HAPPY TO ASK
OR ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU
GUYS HAVE TO ASK AND APPRECIATE
YOUR TIME.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN WE MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
GIVE ME ONE SECOND.
I WILL TRY TO PULL MY
PRESENTATION.
I THINK MR. HIRSCH DID AN
EXCELLENT JOB OF DESCRIBING
WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED FOR THE
PROJECT OR WE CAN SEE THAT
CORRECT.
OK, PERTON COMMINS JUST SOME
OF THE THINGS JUST FOR A LITTLE
MORE BACKGROUND INFORMATION
ESPECIALLY FOR THE NEW PLANNING
COMMISSIONER.
THE SITE IS ZONED R FOR B
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENCE UNSCHOOL.
IT IS CURRENTLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION FOR ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY UNITS.
YOU CAN SEE THE ZONING OF THE
SURROUNDING ZONING ARE FOR B
YOU'VE GOT OUR ONE C SINGLE
FAMILY ARCHWAY TO THE SOUTH
THERE I WILL GO TO THE SITE
PLANNING MR. HIRSCH DID A GOOD
JOB OF WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED AS
FAR AS THE HANDICAPPED PARKING
SPACES AND THE AND THE THE
CLUBHOUSE.
IT IS CURRENTLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
THIS IS TAKEN APPROXIMATELY
ABOUT A MONTH AGO.
THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE HEARD
ABOUT A MONTH AGO THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW UP TO DATE
THIS IS BUT IT GIVES YOU AN
IDEA OF THE CURVE.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING IN AND
IS CURRENTLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION, ANOTHER VIEW
OF IT.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'VE GOT
FOUNDATIONS IN OR NOT
UNDERGROUND PIPES BUT THIS
GIVES YOU AN IDEA OF THE STATUS
OF THE SITE THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION BUT I'M OPEN TO
ANY QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
TWENTY EIGHT FIVE BERTAN
ROADSIDE PLAN AMENDMENT.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUAL'S PRESENT ADDRESS
COMMISSION THEN PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE HAND FEATURE IF YOU'RE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF WILL CALL SELECT
CALLERS TO RAISE YOUR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER AND BY
NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND NOISES SO THAT WE
MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
MR. ROBERT, THANK YOU AGAIN
COMMISSIONER KEN GARBER AGAIN
AT LAST MONTH AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS PROJECT I
ASKED THE PETITIONER TO SINCE
THEY'RE REDESIGNING THE
CLUBHOUSE TO MAKE ALL ELECTRIC.
I DIDN'T QUITE GET TO FINISH IN
MY LAST COMMENT WHAT I MY QUOTE
FROM THE EIGHT THREE ZERO PLAN
PAGE FORTY BUT HERE IT IS NOW
QUOTE ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION FROM
TWENTY TWENTY TWO TO TWENTY
THIRTY AND BEYOND JUST BELOW A
NET ZERO ENERGY STANDARDS WHICH
INCLUDES NO NATURAL GAS
CONSUMPTION END QUOTE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY OF YOU
ARE AT THE ELECTRIFICATION EXPO
AT THE FARMER'S MARKET LAST
MONTH.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT I
KNOW WAS THERE THERE WERE
PEOPLE FROM MITSUBISHI BRYANT
CARRIER TOSHIBA HAILIE
MECHANICAL MICHIGAN ENERGY
SERVICES, CNR MECHANICAL THEY
WERE ALL THERE OTHER VENDORS
WELL LOTS OF OPTIONS FOR AIR
SOURCE HEAT PUMPS, GEOTHERMAL
SYSTEMS, HEAT PUMP WATER
HEATERS, BATTERY STORAGE.
THE FOCUS WAS ON HOME RETROFITS
NOT NEW CONSTRUCTION BUT IT WAS
CLEAR THAT HIGH EFFICIENCY HEAT
PUMPS THANKS TO VARIABLE SPEED
COMPRESSORS AND OTHER ADVANCES
ARE NOW COMPLETELY VIABLE IN
OUR CLIMATE AND THE COST IS
BASICALLY ON PAR WITH GAS
APPLIANCES ONCE INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT INCENTIVES ARE
TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT FOR NEW
CONSTRUCTION, THERE IS NO VALID
EXCUSE IN MY OPINION NOT TO GO
ALL ELECTRIC THROUGH OPERATING
COSTS MAY BE HIGHER RIGHT NOW
CHARGES SOME OF THE HIGHEST
ELECTRIC RATES IN THE COUNTRY
BUT THE DIFFERENCE IS NOT GREAT
ABOUT THIRTY DOLLARS A MONTH ON
AVERAGE PER APARTMENT COMPARED
TO GAS FOR ELECTRIC BUT ADDING
SOLAR AND BUILDING TO TWENTY
TWENTY STANDARD SHOULD WIPE OUT
THAT DIFFERENCE AND I KNOW THAT
THEY'RE MOVING FROM A FLAT ROOF
TO A HIGH PITCHED ROOF WHICH
SHOULD ACCOMMODATE SOLAR BETTER
ON THIS PROJECT.
I MEAN THIS WHOLE PIPELINE
PROJECT SHOULD BE ALL ELECTRIC
.
I REALIZE IT'S PROBABLY TOO
LATE FOR THAT.
THAT'S A TRAGEDY BUT AT LEAST
THE PETITIONER CAN ELECTRIFY
THE CLUBHOUSE AND ADD SOLAR
PANELS.
I CAN'T IMAGINE ANY REASON TO
BUILD WITH GAS EXCEPT FOR WE'VE
ALWAYS DONE IT THAT WAY.
YEAH, I GUESS THEY MAY HAVE A
GAS CONTRACT WITH DTT.
I SAY CANCEL THAT CAP THE GAS
LINES TUESDAY GEOTHERMAL AIR
SOURCE HEAT PUMPS SYSTEM FROM
THE MANY AVAILABLE HIGH
EFFICIENCY PUT ON SOLAR PANELS
AND BUILD YOUR SMALLER
CLUBHOUSE.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S TOO MUCH
TO ASK.
THANK YOU.
MR. GLOVER, IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY
?
OK, WE'LL MOVE ON OUR PROPOSED
MOTION.
THE PROPOSED CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION IS THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE BRIGHTON VILLAGE
SITE PLAN TWENTY FIVE ROAD AS
THE SITE PLAN COMPLIES WITH ALL
APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
UNIFIED VELTMAN CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS, ORDINANCES
STANDARDS AND REGULATION IS
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER LITCH
.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
COMMISSIONER MILSOM, I
APOLOGIZE IF THIS WAS COVERED .
I WAS NOT HERE IN AUGUST.
I'M CURIOUS TO FOR STAFF WHY IT
IS THAT THIS REQUIRES PLANNING
APPROVAL BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I'M LOOKING AT THE TABLE WHEN
WE REVISE TABLE FIVE POINT
TWENTY NINE DASH ONE WHERE WE
TRY TO MOVE SOME MINOR
ADJUSTMENTS KIND OF DOWN THE
LADDER OF APPROVAL AND I'M JUST
CURIOUS WHAT THE WHAT PUMPED
THIS INTO COMING BEFORE
PLANNING COMMISSION TERRITORY?
IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
WE DID HAVE INTERNAL
DISCUSSIONS REGARDING WHAT THIS
WOULD FALL UNDER, WHETHER IT'S
A SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
MANAGER OR FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION.
IT REALLY CAME DOWN TO YOU CAN
DO A REDUCTION IN THE BUILDING
BUT IT WASN'T CONSTRUCTED YET.
IT'S STILL NEW CONSTRUCTION.
IT WAS ADDING FLOOR AREA AND WE
HAD KIND PLACED IT IN IT'S A
SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
SO YES IT IS REALLY IT IS A
REDUCTION OF ABOUT TWO THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET OF THE CLUBHOUSE
GOT I WASN'T SURE THERE'S THE
SECTION UNDER REVISIONS RIGHT
MOVING A BUILDING PLACEMENT
MORE THAN TEN FEET.
AND SO I WAS LIKE IS THAT
CLUBHOUSE MOVING THE TEN FEET I
CONSTRUCTED?
YEAH OK I'M CURIOUS MAYBE THIS
WILL COME BACK AND COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS I DON'T KNOW
BUT THIS HAPPENS THAT OFTEN BUT
THIS JUST SEEMS THE ALL OF THE
PARKING THAT WOULD HAVE FALLEN
UNDER PLANNING MANAGER APPROVAL
BUT THE REDUCTION OF BUILDING
SQUARE FOOTAGE IN A NON
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING ANYWAY
THAT JUST SEEMS LIKE MAYBE
SOMETHING THAT WE WANT TO ADD
TO THE TABLE TO SPEED THIS
ALONG IN THE FUTURE.
I'M SURE THE PETITIONER WOULD
APPRECIATE I THINK THAT THIS IS
FINE FROM MY PERSPECTIVE.
THANK YOU
, MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL ASK ABOUT THE SOLAR.
I NOTICED THAT TWO OF THE ROOF
CAN YOU JUST TALK ABOUT I WAS
LOOKING BACK WHEN THIS PROJECT
WAS INITIALLY APPROVED AND I
THINK THERE WAS A QUOTE FROM
OWNER THAT THE BUILDINGS WOULD
BE SOLAR READY WHATEVER THAT
MEANS AND HOPEFULLY HAVE IT IN
THE FUTURE.
SO JUST IF YOU COULD GIVE US
ANY SORT OF UPDATE ON WHAT'S
BEEN GOING ON THERE WITH ANY
SORT OF SUSTAINABILITY OR
SOLAR?
YES, I THINK THE THAT RESPONSE
WAS IN REGARD TO THE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AS FAR AS
THE THE STRUCTURE UP TOP TO BE
ABLE TO SUPPORT SOLAR PANELS IN
THE FUTURE BY BEING READY.
I THINK THAT WAS THE NATURE
OF THAT RESPONSE AND I
UNFORTUNATELY DON'T HAVE A
RESPONSE FOR YOU TONIGHT
SOMETHING I'M HAPPY TO GO AND
TALK TO THE OWNER ABOUT AND
WORK WITH STAFF AND TRY TO COME
TO SOME CONCLUSIONS ABOUT SOLAR
ON THE CLUBHOUSE.
I REALLY CAN'T FORCE IT DOES
LOOK LIKE IT'S NOT LIKE THIS,
MR. GARBER SAID THE BEAUTIFUL
ROOF FOR SOLAR SO PLEASE
CONSIDER COMMISSIONER SALVAJE
SO WE DON'T GET TO SEE OUR
PLANS IN PETITION.
BUT MOVING THE BARRIER FREE YOU
MENTIONED THAT THERE WASN'T
ABILITY TO HAVE THE BARRIER
FREE ENTRIES AT THE MIDDLE
OF THE BUILDING BUT CAN YOU
SHARE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
MOBILITY KIND OF PATH FOR
ANYBODY IN A WHEELCHAIR IF THEY
ARE VISITING A UNIT AT PAGE
SOUTH LAKE, DO THEY HAVE TO
ENTER AT ONE END OF THE
BUILDING, MOVE THROUGH THE
ENTIRE CORRIDOR IF THEY'RE
VISITING A UNIT AT THE OTHER
END OF THE BUILDING AND WHERE
ARE THE ELEVATORS SO THE
ELEVATORS ARE KIND OF CENTRALLY
LOCATED AND THEY WOULD STILL BE
ABLE TO GET TO THE MAIN
ENTRANCE.
IT'S IT WAS REALLY JUST A
FUNCTION OF THE RAMPS AT THE
SIDEWALK ADJACENT TO THE
PARKING SPACES THE WAY THAT THE
BUILDING IS PLACED, THE
PROXIMITY TO TO MAKE THOSE
RAMPS WORK AT THE MAIN ENTRANCE
WOULD HAVE REQUIRED THE CURB AT
THE BACK RAMP FROM THE PARKING
TO THE SIDEWALK, NOT THE RAMP
FROM THE SIDEWALK TO THE
CORRECT OK, RIGHT.
THAT'S A HELPFUL CLARIFICATION
BECAUSE YOU KNOW THIS IS THE
HARD PART ABOUT PLANNING IS WE
DON'T REALLY GET TO SEE INSIDE
OF THE BUILDINGS IT CAN MEET
SOME OF THOSE STANDARDS IN
TERMS OF PATH BUT IT IS HARD TO
GOOD POINT ESPECIALLY WHEN
WE'RE GETTING HOUSING UNITS
LIKE THIS IS A GREAT PLACE FOR
LIVING IN PLACE TO HAVE A DRESS
.
A LOT OF THOSE MOBILITY ISSUES.
SO APPRECIATE THAT
CLARIFICATION.
THANKS.
ANYBODY ELSE?
I THINK WE CAN MOVE TO A ROLL
ON THE MOTION IS PRESENT FOR
TWENTY EIGHT OF FIVE BURTON
ROAD COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YES
COMMISSIONER ROGER YES.
SORRY YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
COUNCIL MY BRITISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
YES.
THAT MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS B THIS IS WITH RESPECT
TO EIGHTEEN WASHTENAW SIU THE
EVANS SCHOLARSHIP HOUSE.
I PLAN FOR PLANNING COMMISSION.
THIS IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL A REQUEST TO INCREASE
OCCUPANCY FROM SIXTY FIVE TO
EIGHTY FIVE NO PROPOSED CHANGES
TO EXTERIOR OF THE HOUSE
LOCATED ON THIS POINT FIVE ACRE
PARCEL ZONED ARE TO BE AND I
BELIEVE THAT WE ARE GOING TO
PETITIONER PRESENTATION THANK
YOU AND GOOD EVENING JERRY
KAPLAN THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROJECT ADDRESS FIVE ZERO SIX
TO ARROWHEAD WEST BLOOMFIELD.
I'M GOING TO MAKE IT VERY
BRIEF.
I THINK YOU'VE ALREADY SEEN THE
MATERIAL ESSENTIALLY WE HAVE AN
EXISTING BUILDING THE EVANS
HOUSE AND WASHTENAW.
IT HAS AN EXISTING BASEMENT
FLOOR FOR MORE PUBLIC FUNCTIONS
AND TWO FLOORS ABOVE THAT FOUR
BEDROOMS CURRENTLY THERE ARE
SIXTY FIVE STUDENTS AT THE
HOUSE AND THAT'S THE PERMIT
THAT WE HAVE FOR THAT HOUSE.
THERE IS ALSO A FINISHED LOFT
AREA ABOVE THE TWO FLOORS
FINISHED IN THE SENSE THAT IT
HAS CEILINGS, INSULATION,
CONCRETE FLOOR SPRINKLER SYSTEM
ALREADY THROUGHOUT BUT JUST TWO
CORRIDOR WALLS AND ALL WE'RE
DOING IS ADDING SOME PARTITIONS
TO CHANGE THAT AREA TO
INCORPORATE FOUR LARGE BEDROOMS
EACH BEDROOM FOR FOUR STUDENTS
,EACH BEDROOM TO HAVE ITS OWN
BATHROOM.
SO ESSENTIALLY WE WANT TO BE
ABLE TO ADD SIX MORE PEOPLE TO
THE HOUSE.
THAT'S ESSENTIALLY THE PROJECT
.
WE'RE NOT CHANGING ANYTHING IN
TERMS OF THE BUILDING SHAPE
SITE OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
IT ALL STAYS THE SAME.
IT'S ALL INTERIOR MODIFICATIONS
TO THAT LAST AREA.
I GUESS CHRIS HAS MORE
INFORMATION THAT HE CAN PRESENT
TO YOU IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS, I'D BE HAPPY TO
ANSWER.
THANK YOU.
WE WILL GO TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
EXCELLENT.
I WAS A VERY GOOD PRESENTATION
.
THIS WAS APPROVED BACK IN TWO
THOUSAND AND THREE FOR THE
EVANS SCHOLARSHIP HOUSE REALLY
DEMOLISHED THE OLD ONE
CONSTRUCTED A NEW ONE IN TWO
THOUSAND AND FOUR.
IT WAS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
USE THAT CAP THE NUMBER
OF STUDENTS AT SIXTY FIVE AS WE
PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED IT IS
LOCATED JUST ON THE WEST SIDE
OF WASHTENAW JUST NORTH
OF FREEDON AND AS WAS
PREVIOUSLY STATED, THIS IS ALL
INTERIOR RENOVATION.
THERE'LL BE NO CHANGES TO THE
EXTERIOR OF THE SITE, NO
ADDITIONAL PARKING, NO
ADDITIONAL WELL EXCEPT FOR THE
INTERIOR OF THE FLOOR AREA
APPROXIMATELY I THINK IT WAS
SEVENTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
SOMETHING LIKE THAT WITH THE
FOUR BEDROOMS THAT WHAT THE
TOTAL WAS THAT IS THE THE NET
HABITABLE AREA THE ACTUAL UP
THE ATTIC AREA GROSS FLOOR AREA
IS FOUR THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
JUST TO MAKE SURE YOU NOTICE
THAT THINGS STICKING UP IN
FRONT OF YOUR MOUTH BUT YOU CAN
HEAR ME CAN YOU HEAR ME PLEASE
MAKE SURE YOU I'M SORRY TURN
DOWN USUALLY PEOPLE TELL ME TO
USE MY INDOOR VOICE OK HERE'S A
VIEW LOOKING SOUTHWEST FROM
WASHINGTON ON CAMBRIDGE AGAIN
NO CHANGES.
THAT'S THE ACCESS TO THE
PARKING LOT THE EXISTING I
THINK IT'S A TWENTY SPACE
PARKING LOT AGAIN HERE'S THE
VIEW LOOKING NORTHEAST FROM
WASHINGTON ON FOR DON
ESSENTIALLY THE ONLY CUT THERE
IS TO PICK UP GARBAGE AND TRASH
NO PARKING IS EXCESSED OFF
THERE.
THIS IS THE AFTER SURVEY
OF WHAT'S EXISTING.
THEY DID RECEIVE A CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER VARIANCE BACK
TWO THOUSAND THREE I BELIEVE AS
PART OF THIS APPROVAL TO SCREEN
FROM THE SURROUNDING
RESIDENTIAL.
AND HERE'S A LOOK AT THE ATTIC
OR LOFT TYPE SPACE THAT HAS
APPROXIMATELY SIXTEEN
ADDITIONAL STUDENTS.
SO THAT WOULD PUT THEM AT
EIGHTY ONE.
I HAD WRITTEN THIS REPORT SO IT
COULD GO UP TO EIGHTY FIVE SO
IN THE FUTURE IF THEY WANT TO
ADD FOUR ADDITIONAL STUDENTS
THEY WOULDN'T HAVE TO COME BACK
AS WAS PREVIOUSLY STATED THEY
DO HAVE BEDROOMS I'M SORRY FOR
FOUR BEDS PER ROOM WITH A
BATHROOM.
I ALSO I BELIEVE SOME QUESTIONS
WERE COMING UP REGARDING WHAT
IS THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT
OF STUDENTS THAT COULD LIVE
HERE.
IT REALLY COMES DOWN TO THAT
IT'S CAPPED BY THE LA AREA AND
THE MAXIMUM THEY COULD HAVE
BASED ON THE LOTTERY BECAUSE
IT'S THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SQUARE FEET OF AREA PER STUDENT
IT COMES OUT TO ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVEN STUDENTS COULD LIVE HERE
.
I DID DO A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND RESEARCH WITH THE
BUILDING HOUSING DEPARTMENT
WHEN YOU START AND I ALSO
COORDINATED WITH MR. KAPLAN
ALSO JUST ROUGH NUMBERS AS FAR
AS WELL WHAT WE HAD BECAUSE FOR
THE HOUSING CODE YOU NEED FIFTY
SQUARE FEET PER STUDENT
OF HABITABLE SPACE IN EACH
BEDROOM AFTER DOING THE
CALCULATIONS AND THE FIRST TWO
FLOORS AND THE THIRD FLOOR THAT
PROBABLY GETS HIM UP TO
APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY FOUR STUDENTS BUT THAT'S
NEITHER HERE NOR THERE.
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
IT'S CAPPED AT ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVEN ALSO DEALT WITH THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND AGAIN
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO GET INTO
HOW MANY COULD LIVE THERE
WITHOUT KNOWING WHAT'S THE
EGRESSED.
THERE'S A LOT MORE INFORMATION
FOR BUILDING CODE TO DETERMINE
HOW MANY STUDENTS YOU CAN
SAFELY HAVE LIVE HERE.
SO WE'VE PUT IT AT EIGHTY FIVE.
I THINK IT PROBABLY COULD GO UP
TO ONE HUNDRED AND SEVEN BUT I
WOULD I WOULD CAUTION YOU THAT
THAT WOULD STILL BE DEPENDENT
ON THE HOUSING DEPARTMENT IN
THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT TAKING
A MORE FORMAL VIEW.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
EIGHTEEN HUNDRED WASHTENAW
SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING ROOM ONLY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE A
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK THE PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL CALL SELECT
CALLERS WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
MINUTES OF THE PHONE NUMBER AND
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE DO STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK SEEING NO
ONE?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED
MASCOTRY.
THANK YOU.
THE PROPOSAL THE PROPOSED
MOTION IS THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION FINDS THE
PETITION TO SUBSTANTIALLY MEET
THE STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING ORDINANCE SECTION
THREE THERE WAS A LATE HENRY.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO UH ALLOW THE
YES CONCLUSION GOOD PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE EIGHT
SEVEN.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
WE CANNOT HEAR YOU YET THAT
EVENING INVOLVEMENT AROUND THE
CORNER FROM THIS SITE AND MY
CONCERN ABOUT THIS IS I
UNDERSTAND IT'S NOT LIKE
WANTING MORE PEOPLE BUT PARKING
IS ALREADY SO CONGESTED IN THE
AREA THAT THERE WILL BE OTHER
PEOPLE PARK ASSUMING EVERY ONE
OF THEM HAVE CAR.
IS THAT BEEN UNDER
CONSIDERATION AT ALL?
MET IN MY COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANYONE ELSE THIS TIME?
NO, THERE ARE NO OTHER HANSSENS
AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
THE PROPOSED MOTION IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION FINDS A
PETITION TO SUBSTANTIALLY MEET
THE STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING ORDINANCE SECTION
FIVE POINT TWO NINE FIVE POINT
FIVE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
SUBJECT TO BUILDING OCCUPANCY
OF NO MORE THAN EIGHTY FIVE
PERSONS AND APPROVES EIGHTEEN
HUNDRED WASHINGTON AVENUE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE THIS
APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS.
THIS WILL BE CONSISTENT WITH
THE GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE
CITY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
OF OFFICE USES IN THE AREA.
THE PROPOSED USE WILL NOT
ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION AND THE PROPOSED USE
IS CONSISTENT WITH OTHER
SURROUNDING USES TRAFFIC IMPACT
AND NUMBER THREE THE ANIBA
PLANNING COMMISSION CONCURS
WITH THE WAIVER OF THE SURVEY
AND PLAN REQUIREMENTS IS
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE POINT
TO NINE POINT EIGHT SUBSECTION
B OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE IS NO
NEW CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED
FOR THE SITE IN A SURVEY OF THE
EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS ON THE
SITE HAVE BEEN PROVIDED MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER LITCH SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER DISH SO SO I HAD A
QUESTION ABOUT PARKING TOO BUT
IT'S NOT AUTOMOBILE PARKING
BECAUSE AS WE NO LONGER HAVE
MANDATORY PARKING MINIMUMS
THERE WOULD BE NO ADDITIONAL
PARKING REQUIRED FOR THIS
PARTICULAR ACT.
BUT I DID WONDER ABOUT
ADDITIONAL BICYCLE PARKING
BECAUSE IF I'M UNDERSTANDING
THE THE MATERIALS THAT WE
RECEIVED YOU HAVE CURRENTLY
FORTY FOUR BIKE PARKING SPACES.
I HAVE THIS IN MY NOTES
AVAILABLE NAZI.
YES AND FORTY FOUR CURRENTLY
SERVES SIXTY FIVE RESIDENT I
DON'T KNOW DO YOU HAVE ANY AS
FAR AS I KNOW WE NEED TO
PROVIDE ONE ONE PER TWO SO
ACTUALLY FORTY FOUR OR FORTY
THREE IS GOOD FOR EIGHTY EIGHTY
FIVE.
EIGHTY SIX YEAH THAT MIGHT BE
TRUE BUT IF I COULD JUST TO
FULLY ARTICULATE MY QUESTION
FIRST I WONDERED IF YOU HAVE
USAGE INFORMATION ON YOUR
CURRENT DO YOU KNOW IF ALL
THOSE SPACES ARE USED AND THEN
SECONDLY SINCE
WE ARE MAKING AN
APPROVAL HERE I THINK WE ARE
ALLOWED TO MAKE SUGGESTIONS NOT
PERHAPS REQUIREMENTS BUT AS YOU
KNOW WE PRIORITIZE MULTIMODAL
TRANSIT.
WE ARE TRYING TO GIVE PEOPLE
ALTERNATIVES TO AUTOMOBILES AND
WE ALSO ENVISION GREATER AND
GREATER BIKE NETWORKS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
SO IT JUST SEEMS TO ME THAT
FORTY FOUR FOUR EIGHTY SEEMS ON
THE LOW SIDE FOR A STUDENT
RESIDENTS AND SO I JUST
WONDERED IF YOU KNEW HAD THE
USAGE ON WHAT YOU CURRENTLY
HAVE AND IF YOU HAVE ANY
FLEXIBILITY TO OFFER US A FEW
MORE BIKE PARKING SPACES AND
OF COURSE I'D BE HAPPY TO HEAR
IF ANY OF MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS FEEL LIKE THAT'S
A REQUEST I'D BE HAPPY TO
ANSWER THAT CURRENTLY WE HAVE I
THINK ABOUT THIRTY FIVE
BICYCLES THAT STUDENTS ARE
USING.
WE HAVE INDOOR BICYCLE SO IT'S
ALL COVERED AND IT'S SAFE AND
IT'S WITHIN LOCKED DOORS AND
EVERYTHING.
SO THEY'RE THERE.
IT'S BETTER THAN COVERED BY
BICYCLES AND WE ALSO HAVE
ADDITIONAL STORAGE SPACE WHERE
WE CAN PUT EASILY
CLOSE INSIDE
THE BUILDING AT THE BASEMENT
FLOOR SO WE CAN ACCOMMODATE AS
MANY AND WE ENCOURAGE MORE
BICYCLE USE AND ALSO THAT BEING
A THIS IS NOT A REGULAR
DORMITORY.
THIS IS A PRIVATE ORGANIZATION
THAT MANAGES THIS BUILDING AND
BASICALLY THEY CAN PUT A CAP ON
WHO IS ALLOWED AND WHO IS NOT
ALLOWED TO HAVE A CAR AND BRING
IT TO THE SITE.
SO WE HAVE CURRENTLY TWENTY ONE
PARKING SPACES AND THAT'S IT.
THAT'S THE LIMIT.
SO THEY JUST CHOOSE THE MAYBE
THE MORE SENIOR PEOPLE OR
WHOEVER BUT ESSENTIALLY WE CAN
CONTROL IT.
IT'S NOT LIKE EVERYBODY IS
ENTITLED TO HAVE A CAR PARKED
AT THE SITE BECAUSE THEY'RE
GETTING AS PART OF A FOUNDATION
THAT PROVIDES THE SCHOLARSHIP.
THERE'S NO ARGUMENT HERE EITHER
YOU'RE ALLOWED OR NOT ALLOWED
TO HAVE A CAR ON SITE INCLUDING
THAT IS REALLY HELPFUL.
AND SO IF I MAY JUST MAKE SURE
THAT I'M UNDERSTANDING THE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION YOU'RE
PROVIDING, YOU'RE SAYING THAT
THERE WON'T BE ADDITIONAL CARS
EVEN IF THERE ARE ADDITIONAL
RESIDENTS THEY'RE NOT REQUIRED
EITHER AND THEY CAN ARM WRESTLE
IF THEY WANT TO OVER WHO GETS
THE WELL, WHO GETS TO HAVE A
CAR.
BUT THERE ARE TWO WHO WILL
DECIDE FOR THEM.
YES, NO ARM WRESTLING.
WELL, WE CAN TRY I'LL RECOMMEND
THAT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL ON BRITISH COMMISSIONER
MILLS' THINKS I WOULD RELATEDLY
NOTE I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH YOU
TRUST THE TRANSIT AND WALK
SCORES BUT IT'S 60 GOOD TRANSIT
AND IT'S WALKING SCORES ARE
ALSO ABOVE THAT SIXTY FOUR.
SO I MEAN THIS IS EN ROUTE FOR
IN TERMS OF BEING ABLE TO TAKE
A BUS LIKE THAT IS THE MOST
FREQUENT TRANSIT SERVICE SO I
THINK THAT THIS IS IT.
IT'S NOT JUST WISHFUL THINKING
THAT PEOPLE WOULD LIVE HERE
WITHOUT A CAR.
I THINK THAT THIS IS THIS IS A
KEY PLACE FOR THAT.
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR STAFF AT
FIRST OF ALL, I APPRECIATE
BUILDING IN THE FLEXIBILITY
OF NOT JUST THE 16 ADDITIONAL
BEDS THAT THEY WERE ASKING FOR
BUT FUTURE PROOFING IT A LITTLE
BIT IN CASE THEY WANT TO PUT
FIVE IN EACH OF THOSE NEW ROOMS
.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT I I KNOW THAT
YOU NOTED THE BUILDING
CODE LIMITATIONS AND THAT
HASN'T BEEN IT HASN'T BEEN
DISCUSSED.
BUT I'M CURIOUS ABOUT YOUR
SENSE OF WHETHER BECAUSE FROM
THE ZONING SIDE THIS THIS
PROPERTY COULD ACCOMMODATE ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVEN HUNDRED AND
EIGHT IF IF THERE'S A REASON
NOT TO WRITE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE NOW TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT KNOWING THAT
BUILDING CODE IF THERE IS
INTERNAL FIRST OF ALL THIS THIS
IS INSPECTED REGULARLY I ASSUME
AS PART OF THE RENTAL PROGRAM
AND THAT BUILDING CODE WOULD
CATCH ANY OF THOSE OTHER
VIOLATIONS JUST TO TO SAVE THEM
FROM HAVING TO COME BACK IN THE
FUTURE I THINK IS PERFECTLY
ACCEPTABLE TO CAP IT AT ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVEN WITH THE
CONDITION THAT YES, IT WILL
STILL HAVE TO MEET HOUSING AND
BUILDING CODE WHEN THEY COME IN
IF THEY CHOOSE TO EXPAND THE
INSIDE OF THE OF THE STRUCTURE.
ANY TYPE OF ADDITIONAL FLOOR IN
ADDITION WOULD REQUIRE THEM
COMING BACK AS A SITE PLAN TO
SO IF THEY'RE GOING TO DO ANY
TYPE OF EXTERIOR FLOOR AREA
THEY'LL BE BACK IN FRONT OF YOU
SO I'LL JUST SAY I WOULD BE IN
FAVOR OF THAT.
I DON'T LIKE I WOULD LET OTHER
PEOPLE CHIME IN.
I THINK THAT THE IDEA
OF INTERNAL RECONFIGURATION TO
TO GET US ADDITIONAL BEDS IS
ONE OF THE LEAST DISRUPTIVE
OPPORTUNITIES HERE AND SO I
WOULD BE HIGHLY IN FAVOR OF OF
MAKING THAT CHANGE TO IN THE IN
THE MOTION LANGUAGE TO INCREASE
THAT AGAIN REITERATING FOR
NEIGHBORS OR ANYONE ELSE WHO'S
ASKING THAT IF THERE'S ANY IF
THERE'S ANY CHANGES EXTERNAL
CHANGES OTHER THAN THAT WOULD
CREATE NEW FLOOR AREA THAT THEY
WOULD STILL HAVE TO COME BACK
CORRECT.
BUT THIS IS JUST SAYING THAT
THAT IF IT'S DONE WITHIN THESE
WALLS THE INTERNAL
RECONFIGURATION WOULD ALLOW FOR
SOME ADDITIONAL BEDS SO LONG AS
IT FOLLOWS THE OTHER APPLICABLE
CODES INCLUDING THE BUILDING
CODE .
I THINK THAT'S CORRECT.
AND MR KAPLAN COULD PROBABLY
ALSO CONFIRM WHEN WE HAD OUR
DISCUSSIONS THAT THESE PROPOSED
LOFT BEDROOMS HAVE FOUR BEDS IN
THEM.
I BELIEVE THE LOWER LEVELS HAVE
TWO BEDS.
SO COULD THEY ACTUALLY PUT MORE
STUDENTS IN THOSE OTHER ROOMS?
YES, I BELIEVE THEY CAN.
OK, THANK YOU.
IF I MAY ADD SOMETHING AS FAR
AS THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE BECAUSE
OF THE QUESTION WAS ASKED T
I DID A QUICK CALCULATION.
IT TURNS OUT THAT THE EXISTING
TWO FLOORS IF YOU LOOK THE
HABITABLE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF THOSE FLOORS WHICH IS ABOUT
FORTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
APPROXIMATELY ALLOWS US TO
ACTUALLY PROVIDE OFFICIALLY
ACCORDING TO THE CALCULATION
NINETY NINE PEOPLE JUST IN THE
EXISTING TWO FLOORS WHICH WE
DON'T EVEN WANT TO DO BUT
THAT'S THE POSSIBILITY SO JUST
FOR THE RECORD AND TO BE CLEAR
WHICH THE CURRENT ZONING
DOESN'T ALLOW YOU TO DO BECAUSE
OF THE SIXTY FIVE LIMIT.
YES, THAT'S WHERE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS.
BUT IF I'M UNDERSTANDING THE
TABLE RIGHT BASED ON THE MINUTE
THE ZONING MAXIMUM ONE HUNDRED
AND SEVEN WAS ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVEN.
EXACTLY.
SO BUILDING CODE YOU MIGHT BE
ALLOWED TO HAVE MORE THE ZONING
WOULD SAY YOU'RE MAXING OUT ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVEN YOUR CURRENT
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES SIXTY
FIVE IS THE PROPOSAL TONIGHT IS
TO RAISE IT TO EIGHTY FIVE AND
WHAT I'M SAYING IS I WOULD
PREFER TO RAISE IT ALL THE WAY
TO ONE HUNDRED AND SEVEN.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION SO THAT
MATCHES THE CURRENT ZONING IF
I'M HAPPY TO PROPOSE THAT
MOTION.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN AQUIVER CAN I MAKE A MOTION
TO AMEND TO DO WHAT I JUST SAID
GET TO THE SECOND.
OK, COMMISSIONER ABRAN SECONDS
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION REGARDING
THIS MOTION BASICALLY TO AMEND
THE COMMISSIONER NOTHING.
I'LL JUST ADD ONLY COMPLIANCE
CHECKS EVEN WHEN YOU SUBMIT A
BUILDING PERMIT.
SO CONDITIONS LIKE IF THEY
MIGHT BE HAPPY NOW AND THE BIKE
PARKING WHEN THEY ARE BUILDING
PERMIT, IF THEY'RE ADDING MORE
BEDS OR DOING ADDITIONAL
CONFIGURATION ZONING COMPLIANCE
MIGHT BE THAT THE ZONING
DEPARTMENT SAYS SHOW US WHERE
THOSE ADDITIONAL PARKING SPACES
WITHIN THE BUILDING ARE.
SO I FEEL LIKE THAT CHECKS THE
BOXES FUNDING MORE THAN 40
PARKING THAT SORT OF THING.
BUT BRINGS UP A BIGGER POINT
RELATIVE TO OUR CURRENT ZONING
POLICY WHICH IS THAT WE HAVE A
POLICY ABOUT OCCUPANCY THAT IS
ACTUALLY REGULATED FOR HEALTH,
SAFETY AND WELFARE UNDER OUR
BUILDING CODE AND ZONING MAY
NOT BE THE APPROPRIATE PLACE TO
THINK ABOUT OUR OCCUPANCY
LIMITS AND THAT THIS IS
PROBABLY AN INAPPROPRIATE THING
TO ACTUALLY BE ON AN ORDINANCE
RELATIVE TO A MORE RESTRICTIVE
AND MORE REGULATED SPACE
RELATIVE TO THE KIND OF PSEUDO
LOCAL EXPERTIZE OF PEOPLE
DECIDING HERE.
SO I SUPPORT THIS GOING UP TO
THE CURRENT ALLOWABLE MAXIMUM
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO TALKING
ABOUT FUTURE BUSINESS.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER DISCUSSION.
OK, AND JUST A MAKE SURE THAT I
UNDERSTAND CLEARLY WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AMENDING THIS TO
INCREASE TO ONE HUNDRED SEVEN
TO BE BASICALLY IN CONFORMANCE
OR ALIGNMENT WITH BUILDING
CODE .
ABSOLUTELY ZONING ZONING CODE .
GOTCHA.
AND THEN THE BUILDING CODE IS
ALSO GOING TO CONTINUE TO
REGULATE FIRE LIKE SAFETY
SYSTEMS, EGRESS ETCETERA.
OK, GOT IT.
I SUPPOSE WE'RE GOING TO DO A
ROLL CALL.
IT'S JUST A HANDOUT STAFF.
YEAH.
TO KELLY ON THE PROPOSED MOTION
TO AMEND TO AMEND IT TO AMEND
TO ONE HUNDRED SEVEN SO FROM
EIGHTY FIVE TO ONE HUNDRED
SEVEN I THINK A ROLL CALL WOULD
BE BEST.
OK I BELIEVE WE ARE GOING TO
VOTE AT OK TO AMEND THE MOTION
ON THE FLOOR.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
UM COMMISSIONER WATCH YES
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES
NATIONALLY YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAN YES MR
SOLVAY.
YES THE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES
.
MEASURE WHETHER IT BE YES
COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
PASSES UNANIMOUSLY.
SO NOW WE ARE BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL MOTION OF AMENDING
THIS TO NOW IT'S ONE HUNDRED
SEVEN.
SO ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
THE ORIGINAL MOTION WHICH IS
AMENDED SEEING NO FURTHER
DISCUSSION I BELIEVE WE ARE TO
ROLL CALL VOTE SO THERE ARE
ACTUALLY TWO MOTIONS HERE.
THE FIRST IS I BELIEVE THE ONE
THAT YOU MEANT TO AMEND WHICH
IS THE THE PRIMARY MOTION
THERE'S A SECOND TO WAIVE THE
AREA PLAN REQUIREMENT SO I
WOULD JUST NEED TO KNOW OK, I
JUST HEARD THOSE WERE COLLAPSED
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
MEETING.
SO IN THAT CASE ON THE STAND I
DON'T WANT TO SAY COLLAPSE BUT
THE CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED
THANK YOU CONSOLIDATED MOTION
AS AMENDED COMMISSIONER LEE
YES.
MR ABRAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
HOUSE MEMBER YES.
MENTIONER CLERK.
YES MR MILLS.
YES AND COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YES.
THAT CARRIES UNANIMOUSLY.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL BE MOVING ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS DAYQUIL OF COURSE WE
ARE MOVING ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS NINE.
I BELIEVE THAT WE ACTUALLY
SWITCH NINE BEING NINE AT THE
BEGINNING TO AMEND THE AGENDA.
SO WE ARE MOVING ON TO THIRTY
SIX EIGHTY PACARD DENTIST'S
OFFICE SITE PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
THIS IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
REQUESTED WITH STAFF
RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL.
WE ARE ON TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION.
SHOULD WE BE ABLE TO PULL IT
RIGHT UP FROM THERE WITH ME FOR
A SECOND I GOT IT.
YES
.
ALL RIGHT.
TELL EVERYONE AND CONSPIRE WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
WE ARE THE CIVIL ENGINEERS AND
PLANNERS AND SURVEYORS FOR THIS
PROJECT.
I'M HERE WITH DR ELIZABETH
BARBER.
SHE'S THE SHE'S THE OWNER
OF BLASIM PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY
AND THEN SHANNON EASTER, OUR
ARCHITECT WITH FUNKY TEXTURE IS
ACTUALLY ANSLEM I BELIEVE SO
SHE MAY HAVE SOME ABILITY TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS IF THERE ARE
ANY AS WELL.
SO JUST A LITTLE BIT OF CONTEXT
ABOUT LOCATION.
SO THE SITE IS AT THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF PACARD AND TURNBERRY
JUST WEST OF KIND OF CARPENTER
ROAD THE US TWENTY THREE
OVERPASS KIND AT THE EASTERN
LIMIT OF THE CITY BOUNDARY THE
NO CAT CLINIC IS IMMEDIATELY
EAST OF THE SITE AND IF YOU
KNOW WHERE THAT IS AND THEN THE
VERY NEIGHBORHOOD IS
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO OUR
SOUTH PROPERTY LINE.
SO THE SITE IS CURRENTLY ZONED
OFFICE WHICH THE DENTAL IS A
PERMITTED USE FOR FOR ZONING
CLASSIFICATION.
ALL THE PROPERTIES EAST OF OUR
SITE ARE ALSO OWNED OFFICE AND
TO BE NORTH AND WEST OF THE
SITE IS AH FOR A R FOR B AND
THEN EVERYTHING SOUTH OF US IS
ONE D THE FUTURE LAND USE IS
PRETTY CONSISTENT WITH ZONING.
SO AGAIN THE THE SITES
DESIGNATED FOR OFFICE USE AS
FAR AS EXISTING CONDITIONS GO
THE SITES ABOUT ONE POINT TWO
ACRES IT'S MOSTLY VACANT AND I
SAY MOSTLY BECAUSE IT'S A
LITTLE BIT UNIQUE IN THAT THERE
ARE TEN EXISTING PARKING
SPACES, HALF OF A DRIVE AND AN
EXISTING ENCLOSURE ON THIS
PROPERTY ALL OF THOSE ARE
CURRENTLY USED BY THE ANIMAL
CARE CLINIC.
SO I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE WHAT
THE HISTORY OF THESE TWO
PARCELS IS BUT AT ONE POINT
THEY HAD TO HAVE BEEN ONE
PARCEL.
I'M IMAGINING BECAUSE YEAH, THE
CARE CLINIC USES THAT THOSE
SPACES THAT WAY REGULARLY THERE
IS AN EASEMENT OVER THE PARKING
SPACES, THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
TRASH ENCLOSURE THAT ALLOWS FOR
SHARED USE BUT NOT CROSS ACCESS
.
SO OUR INTENT IS TO KEEP THOSE
EXISTING FACILITIES AND KIND
OF INCORPORATE THEM INTO WHAT
WE'RE PROPOSING TO DO.
SO WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING TO DO
IS PEDIATRIC DENTAL OFFICE.
IT'S A ONE STOREY BUILDING.
THE FIRST FLOOR WOULD BE USED
AS THE DENHA OFFICE AND THEN
THERE'S A PARTIAL BASEMENT
WHICH WOULD BE FOR STORAGE AND
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
THE BUILDING HAS BEEN CITED TO
MEET DIFFERENT SET BACKS ON
BOTH PACARD AND TURNBERRY AND
TO KIND OF MAXIMIZE THE SET
BACK TO THE ADJACENT
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES WE ARE
PROPOSING TWENTY NINE NEW
PARKING SPACES AND THEN THOSE
OF THOSE TEN EXISTING SPACES
WE'RE SHARING THEM FIFTY FIFTY
WITH A CARE CLINIC SO WE'LL
HAVE THE ABILITY TO USE FIVE
OF THOSE TO GIVE US A TOTAL
OF THIRTY FOUR VEHICLE PARKING
SPACES.
THERE WILL BE FOUR EEVI SPACES
AND NINE SPACES.
THERE ARE TEN PROPOSED BIKE
PARKING SPACES FOR CLASS EIGHT
SIX CLASSI WE HAVE ONE ACCESS
DRIVE THAT IS BEING PROPOSED ON
TO TUR.
WE WERE ADVISED DURING OUR
CONCEPT MEETINGS WITH THE CITY
THAT DRIVE DRIVEWAY ONTO
PACKARD WOULDN'T BE ALLOWED SO
WE PUT THE AXIS ON TURNBERRY
AND THE DRIVE LOCATION WAS
DRIVEN PARTLY BY THE BUILDING
LOCATION BECAUSE THE BUILDING
NEEDED TO BE AT THE CORNER AND
THEN WE'RE ALSO TRYING TO
PROVIDE A SAFE SEPARATION
DISTANCE FROM THE TURNBERRY AND
PACKARD INTERSECTION AS WELL AS
KIND OF MAINTAINING A GOOD
DISTANCE TO THE RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES.
WE DIDN'T WANT OUR DRIVEWAY TO
BE RIGHT NEXT TO THEIR HOUSES.
AS I MENTIONED, THERE IS NO
CROSS ACCESS WITH THE CAT
CLINIC BUT THE TWO PROPERTIES
WILL SHARE THOSE TEN EXISTING
SPACES FIVE AND FIVE.
THE PROPERTIES ARE ALSO GOING
TO SHARE THAT EXISTING DUMPSTER
.
WE ARE PROVIDING A SMALL TRASH
ENCLOSURE AREA FOR A FEW
RECYCLING CARTS OR POTENTIALLY
COMPOST IF NEEDED AND THEN
BASED ON OUR CONVERSATIONS WITH
THE THE SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT
THOSE CRATES WOULD JUST BE
WHEELED OUT AND COLLECTED AS
PART OF THE REGULAR SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION SCHEDULE AND THEN WE
ARE REQUESTING ONE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION TO ALLOW THE
EXISTING VEGETATION ALONG THE
SOUTH AND THE EAST TO SATISFY
THE CLUB REQUIREMENTS WHICH I
BELIEVE STAFF HAS SUPPORTED AS
FAR AS UTILITIES THEY'RE PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THERE'LL BE A NEW DOMESTIC AND
FIRE SUPPRESSION TWO NEW LEADS
COMING OFF OF AN EXISTING 12
QUARTERMAIN IN TURNBERRY.
THERE IS AN EXISTING HYDRANT AT
THE NORTHEAST CORNER OR THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE SITE
WHICH PROVIDES FULL COVERAGE
FOR THE PROPOSED BUILDING AND
THEN THERE'LL BE A NEW SANITARY
THAT CONNECTS TO A TEN INCH
MAIN IN AREA AS WELL STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT.
THERE ARE NO EXISTING DETENTION
FACILITIES ON THE SITE
CURRENTLY WE DID GET SOME VERY
GOOD INFILTRATION TESTING
RESULTS WHEN WE DID TESTING SO
WE'RE PROPOSING AN INFILTRATION
BASE UNDERNEATH THE PARKING
SOUTH OF THE BUILDING AND THEN
THEY'LL BE SWAILS ON THE NORTH
AND WEST SIDE OF THE BUILDING
TO KIND OF DIRECT DRAINAGE
AROUND TO CATCH BASINS AND THEN
IT'LL ALL FLOW INTO THE
UNDERGROUND SYSTEM AND OUTLET
INTO EXISTING STORMS THAT
INTERIM AREA AS FAR AS THE
PROPOSED BUILDING AS I
MENTIONED IS THE SINGLE STORY
SINGLE STOREY BUILDING.
IT'S CONSISTENT IN SCALE WITH
THE OTHER ADJACENT BUILDINGS.
THE GOAL WOULD BE TO USE
LOCALLY AND RESPONSIBLY SOURCED
BUILDING MATERIALS.
THE BUILDING HAS BEEN DESIGNED
TO SUPPORT ROOFTOPS SOLAR
PANELS AS FAR AS SOME OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES AND THE
GOAL OF ACHIEVING FULL BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION.
SO WE'RE CURRENTLY LOOKING AT A
COUPLE OF OPTIONS.
ONE WOULD BE USING ELECTRIC
HEAT PUMPS IN A CONVENTIONALLY
DUCTED SYSTEM OR WE THINK WE
MIGHT HAVE ENOUGH SPACE TO RUN
GEOTHERMAL SOUTH OF THE PARKING
LOT.
SO THOSE ARE TWO THINGS THAT
WE'RE WE'RE CURRENTLY LOOKING
AT.
BOTH OBVIOUSLY WOULD NOT NOT
RELY ON NATURAL GAS.
WELL, SPECIFYING ELECTRIC STOVE
FOR THE STAFF BREAKROOM
ELECTRIC DRYERS FOR THE LAUNDRY
AREA.
AS I NOTED, WE'RE PROVIDING EV
CHARGING STATIONS AND THEN
THERE'S A LOT OF BUILDING
WINDOWS PROPOSED TO KIND
OF MAXIMIZE DAYLIGHT COMING IN
AND USE AS MUCH NATURAL NATURAL
LIGHT AS WE CAN.
WE'RE ALSO PROVIDING OCCUPANCY
SENSORS THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE
BUILDING SO THAT IF SPACES
OF THE BUILDING AREN'T BEING
USED, THOSE THOSE LIGHTS WOULD
TURN OFF AND THEN BACK TO KIND
OF THE SOLAR PIECE.
SO THIS IS JUST KIND OF A
ROUGH, ROUGH PLAN THAT SHOWS
JUST A PRELIMINARY LAYOUT OF OF
HOW THE SOLAR PANELS MIGHT
MIGHT LOOK IF WE PUT THEM ON
THE BUILDING ITSELF BECAUSE
CURRENTLY WE'RE WE'RE LOOKING
AT EITHER ON THE BUILDING OR
GROUND MOUNTED KIND OF SOUTH
OF THE PARKING BUT THIS WOULD
PROVIDE FOR A LITTLE OVER SIX
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE FEET
OF COVERAGE ON THE ROOF AND
THEN AS I MENTIONED, WE'RE
LOOKING AT LOCALLY SOURCED
MATERIALS SO WE'RE SPECIFYING
MICHIGAN SOURCED NATURAL STONE
LOOKING AT SOME ALTERNATIVE
SITING OPTIONS THAT ARE A
LITTLE BIT MORE EFFICIENT, MORE
DURABLE BACKWELL INSULATION,
INTERIOR WALLS, SPRAY FOAM
INSULATION.
SO IT WOULD KIND EXCEED THE
BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR
THE THE R VALUE AND WITH THAT
WE'RE HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
KAWALSKY, DO YOU THINK YOU
COULD GO BACK TO THE OPERA
HOUSE?
I WAS GOING TO RELY ON YOU'RE
JUST ONE WHAT I LOVE TO DO THAT
SOUNDS PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
OK, GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
AGAIN I WANT TO MAKE SURE UP
FRONT THAT WE AS A COMMISSION
THERE ARE TWO MOTIONS REQUIRED
HERE TONIGHT.
ONE IS THE APPROVAL OF THE SITE
PLAN THE MOTION ITSELF AS WELL
AS A LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
WHICH IS A SEPARATE MOTION.
SO A COUPLE OF HIGHLIGHTS STAFF
WANTED TO TOUCH ON REALLY THE
PROJECT DID EVOLVE A LITTLE BIT
SINCE WE ORIGINALLY SAW IT
WHILE WE WERE WORKING WITH THE
PETITIONER TO MINIMIZE SOME
OF THE PARKING ON THE SITE BY
UTILIZING THE SHARED PARKING
WHICH WAS AN AGREEMENT THAT
THEY CAME UPON WHICH WAS
SUPPORTED BY ALL STAFF REALLY
INVOLVED.
IT HELPS MINIMIZE IMPACT TO
SOME OF THE NATURAL FEATURES
AROUND THE STAFF AROUND THE
SITE AS IT STANDS RIGHT NOW,
THE ACTUALLY I'LL GO THROUGH
THE INITIAL LIST RIGHT HERE
AGAIN THAT WE HAVE THE SHARED
PARKING IN AND SOMEWHAT THE
ACCESS AS I UNDERSTAND IT, THE
ACCESS IS NOT THERE'S NOT
TRANSPORTATION ACCESS ACROSS
THE SITE BUT THERE WOULD BE
SHARED ACCESS IF THERE IS
EMERGENCY FOR FIRE AND THINGS
LIKE THAT IF NEEDED.
SO THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT OUR
FIRE MARSHAL DID DID LOOK AT AS
FAVORABLE WITH THAT ABILITY TO
CROSS ACROSS THE SITES LIKE
THAT.
THE LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION AS
YOU GUYS ARE AWARE IS A
SEPARATE MOTION AS I POINTED
OUT THAT WAS SUPPORTED BY STAFF
AGAIN AS YOU CAN SEE, THE SITE
IS PRETTY HEAVILY WOODED TO THE
SOUTH AND TO THE EAST THAT
BORDERS THE RESIDENTIAL THE
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS THERE THAT WOULD
REQUIRE A TEN FOOT WIDE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
WHICH AGAIN WOULD REQUIRE THEM
BASICALLY CLEARING OUT THE
TREES THAT ARE THERE TO PUT IN
SMALLER TREES AND SHRUBS AND
POSSIBLY A BERM.
SO STAFF CAME TO THE AGREEMENT
WITH THE PETITIONER THAT IT'D
BE MUCH BETTER TO KEEP THE
EXISTING VEGETATION AS IT
STANDS ON THE SITE RATHER THAN
REPLACE IT WITH MUCH SMALLER
VEGETATION.
THE TRANSPORT WAS WAS A CONCERN
WITH THE SITE THAT WE LOOKED
INSIGNIFICANTLY SIGNIFICANTLY
TRANSPORTATION ISSUES BOTH
REGARDING THE CURB CUTS ON THE
SITE AS WELL AS POSSIBILITY
OF CUT TO TRAFFIC AS WAS
INDICATED EARLIER BY THE
PETITIONER.
THE CURB CURRENT PACARD WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS A NO GO FROM
THE START THE CURB CUT DIRECTLY
ONTO TO TURNBERRY LANE THE
DISTANCE WAS ALSO REVIEWED BY
OUR TRANSPORTATION TEAM MAKING
SURE THAT EVEN IN SPITE
OF WHERE THE BUILDING ITSELF
LOCATION IS, WE WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT YOU HAVE PROPER
CLEARANCE REGARDING THE
INTERSECTION, THE DISTANCE
DISTANCE FROM THE BUILDING
CORNER TO THAT DRIVEWAY AS WELL
AS THE INTERSECTION.
A DISTANCE OF THAT CURB CUT
FROM THAT INTERSECTION HAS TO
BE A CERTAIN DISTANCE FROM
THERE.
SO THAT IS MET BY THIS DESIGN
AS WELL.
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS WERE
IDENTIFIED WITH SOME OF THE WE
HAD A COUPLE OF NEIGHBORHOOD
MEETINGS, SOME NEIGHBORHOOD
FEEDBACK IN THERE.
ONE OF THE CONCERNS THAT WAS
MENTIONED BY THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WAS THE LOCATION OF MAILBOXES
THAT ARE JUST OFF SITE ACROSS
TURNBERRY LANE.
IF YOU SEE ON THE VISUAL THERE
KIND OF IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A
HIGHLIGHTED AREA.
I DON'T HAVE THAT.
IT'S JUST IT'S ACROSS THE
STREET AND JUST SO IT'S ON THE
WEST SIDE OF TURNBERRY AND JUST
SOUTH OF YES.
SOMEBODY HAS GOT THERE JUST
SOUTH OF THAT OF THEIR DRIVER
RIGHT THERE.
THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT AGAIN
THE PETITIONERS INDICATED THEY
BE WILLING TO WORK WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT THERE'S NO
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION IN
PLACE NOW CURRENTLY.
SO THERE WASN'T NECESSARILY A
MAIN CONTACT TO AND TO AGREE
UPON SOLUTIONS.
BUT I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT THEY ARE STILL WILLING TO
CONSIDER IF THEY GET A
CONSENSUS OPINION FROM THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THAT AREA.
BUT AGAIN, OUR TRAFFIC TEAM DID
LOOK AT THAT.
THEY DIDN'T FEEL THAT THAT WAS
NECESSARY TO A CONFLICT BASED
ON THE TRAFFIC FLOW THAT WAS
PROPOSED AT THIS LOCATION, THE
TRAFFIC FLOW THAT'S TYPICALLY
GENERATED AT THAT MAILBOX
LOCATION.
THEY DID DO A TRAFFIC IMPACT
BASICALLY A BASELINE TRAFFIC
IMPACT STUDY FOR THIS.
IT DID NOT REQUIRE A LARGER
STUDY TO BE TO BE CONDUCTED AS
WELL AS NO OFF SITE
IMPROVEMENTS WERE REQUIRED BY
THAT COUPLE OF THE OTHER ISSUES
AGAIN, THEY DID MENTION THE
SHARED DUMPSTER.
THERE'S A SMALL LOCATION FOR
THE RECYCLING ON THE SITE AS IT
STANDS, THE PARKING IS
CODE COMPLIANT AND AGAIN THE
PETITIONER IS OFFERING THE
ELECTRIFICATION AS AS AN
ELEMENT REQUIRED FOR THE
BUILDING AS WELL.
SO I THINK THAT COVERS ALL THE
STAFF ITEMS THAT I WANTED TO
ADDRESS HERE.
AND AGAIN, OBVIOUSLY WE ARE
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF THE
SITE PLAN AS WELL AS THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION HERE
TONIGHT CONCLUDES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR KAWALSKY.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING SO THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK UP THE THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THE PROPOSED THIRTY SIX
EIGHTY PACKARD SITE PLAN.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING MY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU'RE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK AND
FOR PHONE ACCESS AGAIN LET'S
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX FOUR THREE ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE YOU'RE GOING TO
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SILENCE SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
SO FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION ONCE AGAIN
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS AND IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THIS PARTICULAR MATTER
JANUARY THIRTY SEVEN THE BEN I
HAD I CAME HERE WITH QUESTIONS
BUT THAT WAS ABLE TO ANSWER
MOST OF THOSE QUESTIONS.
JUST WANTED TO SAY THOUGH THAT
THERE WAS A NOTICE THAT WAS PUT
ON A POLE THAT'S RIGHT NEXT TO
THE PROPERTY.
IT WAS ONLY PUT UP YESTERDAY.
AND SO AND THIS IS I'M ONLY
LEARNING ABOUT THIS PROJECT
RIGHT NOW.
AND SO I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
SUGGEST THAT PERHAPS IF THERE
COULD BE YOU KNOW, IN OTHER
PROJECTS AROUND THE CITY, IF
NOTICE COULD BE PUT UP MORE
AHEAD OF TIME THAN AT THE LAST
MOMENT.
SO THAT THERE IS OPPORTUNITY TO
GIVE FEEDBACK ON A PROJECT, I
UNDERSTAND THIS PROJECT WILL
PROBABLY GO THROUGH AS IT IS
WHICH IS BUT I'M JUST SAYING
FOR FOR FUTURE THAT PERHAPS
NOTICE COULD BE PUT UP SO THAT
COMMENTS COULD BE CONSIDERED
AND I JUST ONLY ONE HAVE
ANOTHER QUESTION THAT WASN'T
BROUGHT UP WAS LIGHTING
LIGHTING ON THIS CORNER KNOWING
THAT THE CITY HAS A PLAN.
WHAT I I'M SORRY I'M DRAWING A
BLANK ON THE NAME OF IT RIGHT
NOW BUT REDUCING THE LIGHTING.
SO I JUST WONDERED ABOUT ABOUT
THAT ASPECT AND I THINK THAT'S
IT AGAIN WAS KIND ENOUGH TO
ANSWER ON THE OTHER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PARTICULAR PETITION
?
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
HE CAN GO AGAIN.
TWENTY EIGHT YEAR OLD COURT THE
PETITIONER HERE IS GENUFLECTING
TOWARDS ALL THE RIGHT
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION
PASSABLY GEOTHERMAL, SOLAR BY I
DID NOT HEAR ANYTHING
DEFINITIVE ON ANY OF THIS.
IT'S THE SORT WHILE WE'RE
LOOKING INTO ALL THIS RIGHT NOW
AND I GUESS I WOULD BE CURIOUS
AS TO WHY THEY CAN'T BE MORE
DEFINITE AND DEFINITIVE ON
THESE QUESTIONS AT THIS TIME.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE HEARD A LOT
OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS
OF PETITIONERS COMING IN AND
SAYING YEAH, WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
THIS WE'RE LOOKING AT
GEOTHERMAL.
WE'RE LOOKING AT
ELECTRIFICATION.
WE'RE LOOKING SOLAR.
BUT IT'S TOO EARLY IN THE
PROCESS TO REALLY SAY WHETHER
WE CAN DO THIS.
I MEAN WE WE CAN'T EVEN WE'RE
GOING TO START DESIGNING OUR
MECHANICALS FOR ANOTHER SIX
MONTHS.
I MEAN REALLY WE'RE REALLY
SERIOUSLY LOOKING AT THIS SO I
DON'T MEAN TO IMPLY BAD FAITH.
I MEAN MAYBE THIS IS REALLY
DEFINITE EFFORT ON THEIR PART.
I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
HEARING IF THEY HAVE A
GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING REPORT
AT THIS TIME AND WHAT IT SAYS
WHAT MIGHT BE THE LIMITING
FACTORS.
BUT TO ME IT SOUNDS
DEPRESSINGLY FAMILIAR AT THIS
POINT.
I MEAN ONCE IT'S PROVED NO
ONE'S REALLY GOING TO GO BACK
AND CHECK AND SEE WHAT THEY'VE
DONE AND HAVEN'T DONE.
I'D LIKE TO SEE MORE
GRANULARITY ON THESE POINTS ON
THE PART OF A PETITIONER.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S OTHER THINGS
THEY COULD DO AS WELL INCLUDING
BATTERIES, STORAGE AND
CONFORMITY WITH THE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE ICC.
AS I MENTIONED BEFORE ZERO PLAN
MANDATE NET ZERO ENERGY
BUILDING.
AT THIS POINT WE'RE NOT GETTING
VERY MANY SO YEAH.
IF SO TO ME IT'S NOW THAT GAS
OFF THE TABLE AT THIS POINT I'D
LOVE TO BE WRONG ABOUT PLEASE
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG PART
OF IT IF THIS THIRTY TWO
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED SEVENTY
THREE SQUARE FOOT BUILDING IS
HEATED WITH GAS I CALCULATE
WE'LL PUT OUT THREE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY FIVE METRIC TON CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS A YEAR.
I HOPE THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR GLOVER.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK IN THE ROOM.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS MICHELLE MLLER.
I LIVE A THREE TO SIX SEVEN
TERM VERY LATE.
I WAS GOING TO TALK BECAUSE I
TALKED TO MATT
.
HE ALREADY EXPLAINED A LOT
ABOUT THE TRAFFIC AND
EVERYTHING I WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT THE ENTRANCE SORT OF CUT
OUT WHATEVER YOU CALL IT ON
TURNBERRY LANE.
WE HAVE A LOT OF TRAFFIC COMES
THROUGH AND WE TEND TO GET
STUCK AT CERTAIN TIMES AT THE
LIGHT.
AND MATT ALREADY MENTIONED THAT
ENGINEERS WERE ALREADY LOOKING
AT THE TRAFFIC DELAYS THAT WE
CURRENTLY HAVE NORMALLY IN THE
MORNING WHEN PARENTS TRYING TO
GET THEIR KIDS OUT TO SCHOOL MY
SON GOES TO COMMUNITY AND SO WE
SIT THERE FOR FIVE MINUTES OR
SO TRYING TO GET OUT AND AND
COMING IN IN THE WINTER TIME IS
KIND OF HARD COMING IN WHEN
IT'S WINTER AND SNOW AND IF
THEY DON'T PLOW OUR AREA OR
SALT IT, YOU CAN CRASH TO THE
CAR SOMETIMES SO CONCERNED
ABOUT THE TRAFFIC COMING IN AND
OUT IN THE INCREASE THE TRAFFIC
AND WE ALSO TALKED ABOUT WITH
MATT ABOUT THE POSSIBLE YOU
KNOW, OTHER PEOPLE TRYING TO
GET OUT THERE EXCEPT BY THE
FACT THAT THEY MIGHT GET TIRED
OF WAITING FOR THE TRAFFIC TO
COME OUT.
ERM I FIGURE OUT OH THERE'S AN
OPENING OVER THERE AT THE NEW
PLACE THAT'S CUT THROUGH AND
COME THROUGH IT'S LIGHT.
SO THERE'S SOME CONCERNS THAT I
HAVE ABOUT THE NEW CUT OUT IN
TURNBERRY, THE INCREASED
TRAFFIC DELAY FOR OUR AREA.
SO THAT'S ALL I REALLY HAVE TO
SAY.
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE
A NICE PLACE THOUGH BUT THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU, SIR.
ANYONE ELSE SEEING NO ONE?
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
WE DO.
THANK YOU, PAULA.
THE PHONE NUMBER WAS ONE SIX
EIGHT PLEASE PRESS STAR SIX AND
ADDRESS THE QUESTION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES LITTLE I THE
EARLY AND I WANT TO PUT UP A
YOUR COMMENT ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED IN THE INTERSECTION ON
A TEMPORARY AND I THINK IT'S
VERY DIFFICULT TO GET OUT
OF THE DIVISION IN WINTER
BECAUSE NOT ONE OF THE CIRCUIT
AND THE INTERSECTION AND THE
RESULT NOT OPEN BUT WE HAVE THE
CORNER AND I THINK ADDING
ADDITIONAL ENTRY INTERSECTION
BETWEEN THE VERY CRITICAL
CONDITION FOR OUR KEEP EMILY
AND OUR IT WILL CREATE MORE
PROBLEMS FOR THIS INTERSECTION
ABOUT WHAT CONDITION YOUR AND
KNOW THAT YOU MAY BE FROM A
ANTICIPATED CALENERGY THAT WILL
BE CONSUMING ABOUT TWO OR THREE
YEARS.
WE WILL CONTINUE CONTINUOUSLY
BECAUSE OF WHAT WE HAVE AND
WHAT AND MANY PEOPLE IN
ELECTRIC VEHICLE AND POWER
CONSUMPTION WILL GROW SO WE
WILL GET MORE OPPORTUNITY.
WE THINK ABOUT IT ISN'T IT?
AND THEN WE CAN PICK UP AND
AGAIN AND THEN WE NEED ANOTHER
ONE AND THANK YOU THERE ARE THE
REMOTE CALLERS.
NO OTHER CALLERS OK BUT THAT WE
CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING PROPOSED
MOTION BOTH WILL BE TAKING
TOGETHER UNLESS SOMEBODY WOULD
LIKE TO MOTION THAT THEY ARE
TAKEN SEPARATELY.
ALL RIGHT.
AGAIN, THERE'S TWO MOTIONS THE
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION IS BEING TAKEN
TOGETHER AND CONCURRENTLY
APPROVES THE BLOSSOM DENEL SITE
PLAN.
THIRTY SIX EIGHTY PACKARD ROAD
DATED JUNE TWENTY NINE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE IS SITE PLAN
COMPLIES WITH ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS, ORDINANCES,
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS IN
THE SECOND MOTION IS WITH
RESPECT TO THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION AND CLUB THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
THAT ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES
BLOSSOM'S DENTAL PLAN.
THIRTY SIX EIGHTY PACKARD ROAD
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION THAT
ALLOWS EXISTING TREES AND
VEGETATION TO BE COUNTED AS THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESCH
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION COMMISSION
WHICH WILL KICK US OFF.
LET'S START WITH STAFF.
I AM CONFUSED BY THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER AND
WHY WE NEED THIS MODIFICATION
ESPECIALLY LOOKING AT THE SITE
IN THE TREES SO THE LIKE.
WHY IS THIS THE CASE?
IT'S LIKE SEVENTY FIVE FEET
OF CLEARANCE AND NOW WE HAVE TO
DO A MODIFICATION SO THAT THEY
CAN LEAVE THE TREES IN PLACE
BECAUSE IF THEY DO THAT THEY
WOULD HAVE TO REPLACE THEM WITH
WORSE TREES LIKE IS THIS
INTENTIONAL SORRY.
YEAH OK I KNOW NOW THAT I DON'T
THINK MR. LEINERT WANTS TO
ANSWER.
YEAH IT SHOULD BE ON MY MIKE
SHOULD BE ON SO NOW THAT'S A
GOOD QUESTION I MEAN I THINK
THE FIRST ANSWER IS REALLY MOST
SITES ARE NOT THIS HEAVILY
WOODED.
OF COURSE THAT THAT COAT WE
DON'T HAVE ABILITY AS STAFF TO
JUST LIKE KEEP THAT LANDSCAPING
AS IT IS THERE.
WE CAN ONLY LIKE THE
CODE REQUIREMENT JUST SAYS
BASICALLY THEY HAVE IF YOU'RE
INSTALLING OFFICE USE WITH THE
PARKING LOT BASICALLY THE
REQUIREMENTS NEXT TO
RESIDENTIAL YOU HAVE TO PUT
THAT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IN THERE.
IT DOESN'T GIVE STAFF THE
ABILITY BUT IF YOU HAVE THE
SEVENTY FIVE FEET SO THAT'S
WHAT WAS WRITTEN DIRECTLY TO
CODE EVEN THOUGH AGAIN STAFF
OUR LANDSCAPE REVIEWER SAID
YEAH ABSOLUTELY IT'S POINTLESS
TO RIP OUT BIGGER TREES WHICH
SOME OF THEM ARE NOT NATIVE.
I'LL GIVE YOU THAT AH QUOTE
UNQUOTE JUNK TREES BUT THERE
ARE A LOT OF MATURE TREES IN
THERE SO STAFF RIGHT AWAY
AGREED SAID YEAH THERE'S NO
SENSE OF PULLING OUT NOT NATIVE
TREES JUST SO MUCH SMALLER ONES
BUT UDC REQUIRES A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION TO BE DECIDED BY
PLANNING COMMISSION BECAUSE
THERE ARE SOMETIMES YOU KNOW,
THERE MAY BE SOME SITES WHERE
PLANNING COMMISSION MAY THINK
IT'S NOT AS FAVORABLE TO TO
KEEP THE EXISTING TREES IN
THERE.
SO SO THAT'S REALLY I KNOW ON
THIS SITE IT SEEMS LIKE
OVERKILL EXACTLY.
BUT ONE THING THAT IT ALSO DOES
DO IS IT LOCKS IN IF THIS IS
WELL LIKELY ANY NEW DEVELOPMENT
I KNOW LIKE SOME CONCERNS WOULD
BE IF THE TREES WERE REMOVED OR
EXCESS PARKING GOES INTO
ANYTHING LIKE THAT WOULD
TRIGGER A SITE PLAN.
IT WOULD REQUIRE A NEW
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION.
SO IT'S NOT LIKE THEY CAN JUST
THAT LOCKS THEM INTO BASICALLY
KEEPING THOSE TREES THEY ARE
RIGHT NOW.
SO AND AGAIN THAT WOULD BE THE
NATURE OF THE SITE PLAN ANYWAY
.
BUT I THINK THE WAY IT IS
WRITTEN IT GIVES YOU THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THAT
DISCRETION RATHER TO GRANT THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION.
YOU MAY FEEL THAT IT'S BETTER
TO PUT IN SMALLER NATIVE TREES
WITH WITH BUSHES BUT SO THAT'S
THAT'S BASICALLY WHY DOESN'T
THE UDC REQUIRE THAT BECAUSE
IT'S RESIDENTIAL AGAINST
PARKING THAT WHATEVER GOES IN
THERE HAS TO BLOCK WINDOWS AND
PATIOS.
YES, IT'S VISIBLE SO THAT YES
WITH AUTOMATIC CREATE HEIGHT
REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO CREATE
THAT OBFUSCATION.
RIGHT.
CORRECT YES.
IT HAS MINIMAL REQUIREMENTS FOR
SHRUBS AS WELL AS TREES.
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO AGAIN THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER
THING THAT MAY BE PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL LOOK INTO LIKE
IS THIS AN EFFECTIVE THEY'RE
NOT PROVIDING NECESSARILY THE
GROUND COVER THE LOW LYING
SHRUBS AS WELL AS THE TREES.
IS THIS JUST AS AN EFFECTIVE
BUFFER AS A FOOT OR 15 FOOT
WIDE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER SO BUT YOU'RE CORRECT
THE GOAL OF THAT IS TO PREVENT
THE TRAFFIC LIGHTS, HEADLIGHTS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT
INTERFERING WITH THE ADJACENT
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY SECOND QUESTION IS OK, IS
THE PETITIONER WHY SO MUCH
PARKING
?
SO THE PARKING IS BASED ON THE
NUMBER OF STAFF MEMBERS AND
NUMBER OF PATIENTS THAT ARE
EXPECTED TO BE SEEN AT ANY
GIVEN TIME SO SO IS THAT.
SORRY TO INTERRUPT YOU BUT JUST
TO CLARIFY IS A REQUIREMENT
OF THE UDC THAT YOU HAVE
PARKING SPACES FOR STAFF
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING TO BE
THERE?
THERE IS NO REQUIRED
BACKGROUND.
OK, THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT.
YES.
SO WE TRY TO TO MINIMIZE IT SO
WE'RE SHARING FIVE OF THOSE TEN
EXISTING ONES AND THEN ADDING
TWENTY NINE MORE AND DR BIRO
YOU CAN CORRECT ME THERE'S HOW
MANY STAFF MEMBERS ARE THERE
ANY ONE TIME ON AN AVERAGE DAY
WE HAVE TEN STAFF THERE OR A
DUAL SPECIALTY PRACTICE OR
PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY AND
ORTHODONTICS THERE'S SHORT
APPOINTMENTS BUT THERE'S CAN
YOU CAN YOU COME UP TO THE
MICROPHONE SO WE CAN GET THAT
ON?
YEAH.
RESUME LISTENERS CAN'T HEAR
YOU.
SO WE ARE A DUAL SPECIALTY
PRACTICE.
WE ARE PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY AND
ORTHODONTICS.
SO THIS IS THE NUMBER
OF PARKING SPOTS THAT WE FEEL
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR STAFF
AND THE NUMBER OF PATIENTS THAT
WE NEED TO SEE THROUGHOUT THE
DAY.
OK, SO THE QUESTION TO STAFF
ARE THE RESTRICTIONS OR THE
BUSINESS FROM USING STREET
PARKING?
NO.
SO SOME OF THE PARKING COULD BE
ACCOMMODATED ON A STREET THAT
IS ADJACENT TO THE PROPERTY NOT
AS GOES INTO THE TURNING LANE
BECAUSE I KNOW THERE'S A BUFFER
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S PARKING
ON BOTH SIDES OF TURNBERRY OFF
THE TOP OF MY HEAD BUT BUT IT'S
A PUBLIC STREET SO PUBLIC
PARKING WOULD BE ALLOWED WHERE
IT'S A CERTAIN DISTANCE FROM
THE INTERSECTION.
OK, THOSE ARE MY TWO ONE THING
I'M SORRY THE ONLY THING I
WOULD ADD TO THE PARKING IS IT
AS YOU ALL KNOW VERY WELL, WE
DON'T HAVE PARKING MINIMAL
PARKING STANDARDS ANYMORE.
I WOULDN'T QUITE MEET THE
MINIMUM PARKING SO IF WE STILL
HAD PARKING THEY WOULD BE
PROVIDING MORE PARKING ON THE
SITE WHICH IS WHY
WE GOT RID
OF IT SO MR. LEONARD, IS THERE
PARKING MAXIMUM FOR THIS YOU NO
.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COUNCIL MEMBER I'M SORRY I
CORRECT MYSELF.
WE DO HAVE A PARKING MAX IN THE
OFFICE DISTRICT AND THAT THAT
THAT MAXIMUM QUICKLY I WE ALSO
HAVE IT IT LOOKS LIKE SEVENTY
FOUR WOULD BE THE MAX.
YES.
SEVENTY FOUR SPACES BASED ON
THE BUILDING SIZE.
SO YES WE DO OUR APARTMENTS
THANK YOU.
OK YES I THINK WE SHOULD KEEP
WE SHOULD COME BACK TO THAT.
DOES ANYBODY WANT TO KEEP
TALKING ABOUT THAT AND I WOULD
SEE BUT OTHERWISE I WOULD I
WOULD JUST ASK SOMETHING ABOUT
THE TREES SO I NOTICED THAT YOU
ARE PRESERVING AN EXISTING ELM
TREE WHICH IS A LANDMARK TREE
AND FIVE LANDMARKS ARE BEING
REMOVED NOW MR. KOWALSKI, YOU
MENTIONED MATURE TREES IN THAT
SOUTH PART OF THE SITE THAT ARE
BEING PRESERVED AS PART OF THE
EMINENTLY REASONABLE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION I THINK WE ARE
LIKELY TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF ARE
THERE ANY LANDMARK TREES IN
THAT VEGETATION THAT IS BEING
RESERVED AS OPEN SPACE?
NO, THERE'S SORRY THERE'S ONE
LANDMARK TREE IN THAT AREA.
OH, THERE IS ONE LAND LOOKS
LIKE I'M RUNNING THE THE OTHER
ONE LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE
REMOVED.
UNFORTUNATELY THE LANDMARK
TREES ARE HALL IN THE CORNER
OF WHERE A BUILDING NEEDS TO BE
BECAUSE OF SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
THAT I THINK THERE'S ONLY SEVEN
TOTAL ON THE SITE AND I FORGET
HOW MANY BUT I BELIEVE SO YES.
AND ALL OF THEM THAT ARE BEING
REMOVED WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF ON ARE CLUSTERED RIGHT IN
THE COMMON AREA RIGHT IN YOUR
BACKYARD.
SO THERE ARE MATURE TREES TO
THE SOUTH SIDE OF THAT SITE.
SOME OF THEM ARE INVASIVE SO
THEY WOULDN'T QUALIFY AS THERE
IS A LOT OF SIBERIAN ELM.
SO AGAIN THERE'S SOME THAT EVEN
THOUGH THERE ARE LARGER TREES
THEY DON'T QUALIFY BECAUSE
TECHNICALLY THEY'RE INVASIVE.
BUT THERE'S ONLY ONE LANDMARK
THAT'S GOING TO BE PRESERVED
THERE AND I'M NOT SURE WHAT
SPECIES THAT IS.
THAT'S THE ONLY MEAN OR IS
THERE ONE IN THAT SOUTHERN PART
?
SO I'D HAVE TO APPLY THAT
BUILDING THAT THAT'S BEING
PRESERVED IF THERE'S AN OPEN
THE SOUTH END ACTUALLY BEING OK
SO THERE'S AN OAK ON THE SOUTH
END AND THEN THE ELM ON THE
LAKE.
YEAH.
WHICH IS GOOD THAT ACTUALLY THE
MERCURY THAT'S BEING PRESERVED
IS A NINETEEN INCH BAROCK
THAT'S NICE.
SO YEAH THAT'S THE ONLY OAK ON
THE SO THAT'S REALLY NICE AND I
WANTED TO JUST HIGHLIGHT THAT
BECAUSE WE HAD HEARD A CONCERN
RAISED EARLIER IN THE OPEN
COMMENT PERIOD SO THANK YOU FOR
DOING THAT AND I'M GLAD IT'S
TOO SO AND THEN JUST I GUESS
THE OTHER THING IS HOW
COMMITTED ARE YOU TO NOT
HEATING AND HEATING WITH GAS AS
PER THE OTHER QUESTION WE HEARD
I'M COMMITTED TO FULLY
EXPLORING ALL POSSIBLE OPTIONS.
I KNOW THAT'S NOT THE ANSWER
THAT HE HOPES TO HEAR BUT I'M
STILL LOOKING AT COST AND WHAT
IS INVOLVED.
I UNDERSTAND THE INITIATIVE TO
GO ELECTRIC.
I SUPPORT IT.
I AM FROM ANN ARBOR I I, I LOVE
THE CITY.
I LOVE EVERYTHING WE STAND FOR
BUT WE'RE STILL EXPLORING THE
OPTIONS BUT I WILL INCORPORATE
EVERYTHING THAT I CAN.
YEAH.
ANY OF ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
OF COMMISSIONER SELBY JUST
SEEING THE INTENSITY THAT'S
PLANNED FOR THE SITE AT ABOUT
THE ALLOWABLE TWELVE POINT
SEVENTY FIVE THEY ARE IN YOUR
POINT TWO FIVE SO YOU CAN DO
ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA FUTURE
THINKING HERE DREAMING BIG THAT
GREEN SPACE COULD BE TWO OR
THREE STORIES OF RESIDENTIAL
NEXT TO RESIDENTIAL MAYBE STAFF
THAT WOULDN'T REQUIRE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
OF ADDITIONAL PARKING WORK
REQUIRED IF IT FILLED IN THAT
GREEN SPACE CORRECT?
YES.
YES RESIDENTIAL WITH ADJACENT
TO RESIDENTIAL WITHOUT PARKING
AS THAT SEPARATION SORT
OF THING.
UM SO I THINK RELATIVE TO OUR
REQUIRED SET BACKS AND THE
SITUATION TITLEHOLDER IT TO THE
CORNER AND I ACTUALLY JUST
ENCOURAGE THE PETITIONER TO
CONSIDER THE POTENTIAL TO
CREATE A RESIDENTIAL BUFFER
WITH A SECOND PHASE OF THIS
PROJECT THAT IS JUST GOING TO
FURTHER MATCH SOME OF THAT
COMMUNITY GOALS OF OUR HOUSING
REQUIREMENTS AND IT WON'T BE TO
THE DETRIMENT OF WHAT'S ALREADY
PLANNED THERE.
SO I THINK IT'S GREAT.
IT'S ACTUALLY UNFORTUNATE.
THE ONLY THING I CAN SEE IN
THIS PROJECT IS THAT THERE'S
PROBABLY NOT ENOUGH
COLLABORATION OF CONNECTING
SITES TOGETHER HOW YOU HAVE THE
SHARE WITHOUT KIND OF THAT
THOROUGHFARE AND SO YOU KNOW
THAT MOVEMENT ON TURNBERRY AND
THAT THOSE PARKING SPOTS REALLY
KIND OF BLOCK DEPENDING ON
PEOPLE'S HABITS PARKING WITHIN
THOSE TEN SPACES AND IT WOULD
BE GREAT TO SEE MORE WAYS THAT
OUR POLICIES COULD ENGAGE THOSE
INTERCONNECTED SITES FOR MAYBE
MORE PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY SLOWER
STREETS OFF OF THESE COLLECTOR
CORRIDORS.
SO THIS PROJECT JUST KIND
OF HIGHLIGHTS THAT AS AN
EXAMPLE TO KIND OF PUT IN OUR
REFERENCE OF THINGS THAT COULD
BE IMPROVED WITHIN OUR POLICIES
ENCOURAGE BETWEEN PARCELS WHEN
THEY DESIGN GOING FORWARD.
BUT CAN I SPEAK TO WHEN WE WERE
DESIGNING IT THAT WAS
DEFINITELY SOMETHING THAT WE
WERE KEEPING IN MIND.
BUT LIKE THE RESIDENTS HAVE
SAID, I WAS VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE POTENTIAL FOR CUT
THROUGH FROM THE I THINK IT IS
CHERRY CHERRY HILL IS THE DIRT
ROAD THAT PEOPLE NEED TO ENTER
THE CAT CLINIC AND I DID NOT
WANT TO CREATE A SITUATION
WHERE THERE WAS DANGEROUS CROSS
TRAFFIC AND EXCESSIVE TRAFFIC
COMING TO THAT LIGHT AND SO
THAT'S WHY THERE IS KIND
OF THAT SHARED PARKING.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT, IT PROBABLY
WILL BE FULL OF STAFF CARS WAS
A TRADEOFF BETWEEN WANTING TO
SHARE SPACE AND UTILIZE THE
BEST WAY POSSIBLE WITHOUT
CREATING THE SITUATION OF THE
NEIGHBORS WERE CONCERNED ABOUT
.
AND I THINK WE HAVE A LOT
OF TRAFFIC TOOLS THAT I DON'T
THINK WE UTILIZE ENOUGH
CHICANES AND BOLLARDS AND
THINGS TO SLOW DOWN AND PINCHE
TO DETER THOSE KIND OF QUICK
CUTS AND INSTEAD SAY THIS IS A
SLOWER TRANSITION POINT SO THAT
IF YOU'RE MAKING SEVERAL
ERRANDS MOVE ACROSS THIS.
BUT THOSE AREN'T TOOLS THAT WE
USE VERY OFTEN IN CITY PLASTIC
BOLLARDS INSTEAD OF ACTUAL
CHICANES AND SLOWING DOWN
TRAFFIC.
SO THESE ARE THE BEST TOOLS
THAT WE HAVE AND I UNDERSTAND
YOU DON'T HAVE CONTROL
OF DRIVING DRIVERS HABITS BUT
IT WOULD BE GREAT TO SEE HOW WE
CAN IMPROVE IT GOING FORWARD.
AND THIS IS JUST ONE OF THOSE
PROJECTS I RECALL A COUPLE ON
STADIUM AND EVEN I THINK I'M
DEVAR AND WE SAW LAKE
DEVELOPMENT SIDE BY SIDE AND
THOSE STREETS NOT CONNECTING
AND IF YOU THINK ABOUT
SUBDIVISIONS AND HOW KIDS
CONNECT THROUGH I'M JUST TAKING
A TANGENT BUT THIS IS JUST LIKE
A REALLY GOOD EXAMPLE PROJECT
TO SHOW THE COLLABORATIVE
NATURE THAT WE COULD KIND
OF FOSTER BETWEEN PARCELS COULD
REALLY ENGAGE MORE OF THAT
COMMUNITY CONNECTION AND THOSE
SLOWER MULTIMODAL SPACES.
SO THANKS FOR THE PROJECT,
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
I JUST HAD A SMALL QUESTION I
NOTICED IN THE FLOOR PLAN ON
THE SOUTHERN PORTION OF THE
BUILDING THERE'S ABOUT 600
SQUARE FEET THAT ARE DESIGNATED
LEASE SPACE AND I WONDERED WHAT
YOU HAD IN MIND FOR THAT.
DO YOU WANT THE SPECIFICS
OF IT?
YEAH, SO YOU'RE LEASING IT TO A
TENANT.
I ASSUME THAT LEASING IT TO A
TENANT THAT IS GOING TO BE PART
OF A COLLABORATIVE EFFORT TO BE
A MULTIPURPOSE PEDIATRIC
PROVIDER.
SO IN PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY WE DO
A LOT THAT'S FOCUSED ON AIRWAY
AND HEALTHY BREATHING AND THIS
WILL BE A PRACTITIONER, A
SINGLE PRACTITIONER WHO'S
WHAT'S CALLED A MILE FUNCTIONAL
THERAPIST WHO WILL HELP HELP
WITH AIRWAY ISSUES, HABIT, SOME
HABITS, THINGS LIKE THAT
EVALUATING FOR TONGUE TIE LIP
TIE.
SHE'S ALSO A LACTATION
CONSULTANT AND A SPEECH
PATHOLOGIST.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE KIND
OF THIS THIS AREA WHERE PEOPLE
CAN GO TO HAVE EVERYTHING
EVALUATED FOR THEIR CHILDREN
AND THEN TREATED BUT SHE'S
SHE'S JUST A SINGLE PERSON.
SHE SEES ONE PATIENT AT A TIME.
IT SHOULD BE FAIRLY LOW LOW
IMPACT FOR MY SPACE.
THANKS, MR. MILLS.
TO QUESTIONS I THINK MOSTLY FOR
STAFF AND I THINK I ANSWERED
THE FIRST ONE MYSELF SO I WAS
CURIOUS ABOUT HOW THE ADDRESS
WOULD WORK FOR THIS SINCE THE
ENTRANCE IS OFF OF TURNBERRY
AND SO I JUST GOOGLED THE CAT
CLINIC WHICH ALSO DOESN'T HAVE
A TURN OF UM ACCESS ON PACARD.
IT HAS A PACKARD ADDRESS AND AT
LEAST THEN IT TELLS YOU TO TURN
ON A CHERRY TREE LANE.
SO PRESUMABLY NOW GOOGLE MAPS
IS SMART OR PEOPLE AND THINGS.
OK, I JUST WANTED TO BECAUSE
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO TURN AROUND
ON PACARD AND SO I JUST DIDN'T
KNOW HOW YOU HANDLE THAT.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY THE SAFER
ACCESS POINT I THINK
SIGNIFICANTLY SAFER ACCESS
POINT BUT I JUST DIDN'T WHAT
YOU DO AND I GUESS THIS IS A
PLACE WHERE PEOPLE ARE COMING
BACK REGULARLY HOPEFULLY NOT
THAT REGULARLY, HOPEFULLY NOT
TO MEET THEIR REGULARLY EVERY
SIX MONTHS.
EXACTLY.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT THAT TOOK CARE OF THAT
ONE.
THE SECOND ONE IS FOR STAFF
ABOUT COMMENT THAT WAS MADE
ABOUT NOTICE BEING POSTED AND
UH DO YOU KNOW WHAT CAN YOU I
WENT TO THE UDC BUT IF YOU CAN
REFRESH US ALL ON HOW NOTICE
POSTED WORKS AND WHO'S
RESPONSIBLE AND IF WE KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED IN THIS SITUATION THAT
YOUR RIGHT STAFF SO SO WE HAVE
THE TWO NOTICES.
ONE IS THE POSTCARD THAT YOU
GUYS ARE AWARE.
THE OTHER IS IS THE SIGN THAT'S
POSTED THERE.
I DID POST THAT SIGN THERE LAST
WEEK ACTUALLY IT WAS THERE ON
THURSDAY BECAUSE I WENT OUT
THERE MYSELF WITH MY COMPUTER
AND SO WE DID POST THAT ON
THURSDAY EACH BUT WE ONLY HAVE
SO IT'S TAPED AROUND IT'S TAPED
AROUND LIGHT POLE BASICALLY.
SO WE HAVE ONE NOTICE IN A
DEBATE ABOUT WHETHER TO PUT
ANOTHER ONE ON PACARD.
IT DOESN'T SPECIFY NECESSARILY
WHERE WE PUT IT.
I PUT IT DIRECTLY ON TURNBERRY
THINKING BUT I MEAN IT FACES
THE STREET SO YOU COULD EASILY
PROBABLY DRIVE BY IT.
IT'S A WHITE SIGN.
SO IT WAS POSTED BUT
THAT'S NOT
THE MOST VISIBLE LOCATION
APPARENTLY A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVEN'T DIDN'T SEE IT OR SO BUT
THAT IS TRUE.
AND IN TERMS OF I DON'T POOR
NOTICE THAT PEOPLE WOULD HAVE
GOTTEN IN THE MAIL FOR THIS
WHAT IS THE REQUIREMENT THAT
WAS THE FIVE HUNDRED FOOT
POSTCARD THEY DIDN'T HAVE A NO
IT'S THREE HUNDRED FEET.
WELL ACTUALLY LOOK THIS IS NOT
A TEST BECAUSE I DIDN'T USE
YOUR LETTER.
I KNOW I'M A I UP AHEAD OF TIME
IT WAS SOMEBODY WHISPERING IN
MY EAR WHAT ABOUT THE
POSTCARDS.
SO THEY WERE REQUIRED BEFORE
THEY WHEN THE PROJECT SUBMITTED
THE REQUIRED AS A PART OF THE
SYSTEM PARTICIPATION ORDINANCE
TO MAIL OUT THE POSTCARD WITHIN
FIVE HUNDRED FEET.
SO THAT GOES OUT RIGHT WHEN A
PROJECT WAS SUBMITTED THEY WERE
NOT REQUIRED TO HAVE A PUBLIC
MEETING DIDN'T MEET THAT
THRESHOLD BUT THEY WERE
REQUIRED TO MAIL OUT THE
POSTCARD AND THEN THE NOTICE
FOR THE PUBLIC HEARING I LOOK
TO MR. LENAR REMIX KELLY THE I
THINK IT'S THREE HUNDRED FEET
THAT GOES OUT BEFORE THE PUBLIC
NOTICE IS AT FIVE HUNDRED FEET
THE PUBLIC NOTICE THAT GOES FOR
PUBLIC HEARINGS, PUBLIC
HEARINGS THAT RADIUS NOTICE
VERSUS PARTICIPATION.
THIS IS THE FIVE HUNDRED YEAH.
THAT'S THE POSTCARD THAT'S
MAILED OUT RIGHT WHEN WE GET
THE PROJECT EXCEPT IT IS THE
POSTCARD AND THEN THE OTHER
NOTICES WHEN WE DECIDE ON THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND SO
PRESUMABLY IN THIS SITUATION
AND IT'S MEASURED FROM THE
PROPERTY BOUNDARY NOT THE LIKE
THE CENTROID OF THE NOTES
MEASURES FROM THE BOUNDARY THE
THREE HUNDRED TO FIVE HUNDRED
FEET AS WELL.
IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT DIRECTLY
FROM IT'S ONLY A FEW PROBLEMS
DOWN THE ROAD EXACTLY.
IT'S FIVE HUNDRED FEET OR THREE
HUNDRED IT DOESN'T YEAH.
IT'S NOT GOING TO GO THAT FAR
ON PARCELS OF FIFTY SIXTY FEET
WIDE.
ALL RIGHT.
I CAN TELL YOU FOR OUR
POSTCARDS THAT WE MAILED BASED
ON THE FIVE HUNDRED FEET
DISTANCE WE MAILED ONE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY POSTCARDS OH SO OK
THE CITY PROVIDED THOSE
ADDRESSES SO I WE DO ASSUMING
THAT THEY WERE GENERATED
CORRECTLY BUT THAT'S THAT WAS
OUR LIST.
DO YOU REMEMBER WHAT LIKE WHAT
MONTH THAT WAS THAT THOSE WENT
OUT THEY WERE MAILED ON APRIL
7TH OK I CAN THANK YOU FOR
HAVING THAT NUMERICAL NUMBER
THERE.
OBVIOUSLY IT'S A NUMERICAL
NUMBER ANYWAY SORRY IT'S LATE I
SO I'M CURIOUS I MEAN THANKS
FOR BRINGING THIS TO OUR
ATTENTION ABOUT THE VISIBILITY
AND I THINK THE END OF THESE
AND KIND OF HOW THE POSTCARD
MAILING WORKS AND THIS IS
SOMETHING PERIODICALLY THAT
COMES UP ABOUT LIKE HOW WHAT
TEXT GOES ON THERE AND KIND
OF HOW VISIBLE THINGS ARE.
SO ADDING TO OUR ITEM TONIGHT
MAY COME BACK ANYWAY IN TERMS
OF DON'T HAVE IN TERMS
OF FUTURE PROPOSED BUSINESS BUT
OVERALL I THINK THAT THIS IS AN
APPROPRIATE USE.
I REALLY LIKE WHAT COMMISSIONER
ABRAN SAID ABOUT THINKING ABOUT
OR COMMISSIONER SAYING SORRY
NOT APRON'S CHANNELING
INTERNALLY ABOUT THINKING ABOUT
WHAT THIS IT COULD BE IN THE
FUTURE TO COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I LIKE THAT FOR THE RECORD UM
OK SO I'M I'M ASSUMING THAT
THERE'S NO GASLINE ON THIS
PROPERTY RIGHT NOW RIGHT.
IT'S JUST TREES AS FAR AS I'M
AWARE THERE IS NOT A THERE I
JUST I BASED ON THIS
PRESENTATION LIKE I DID GET THE
THE SENSE THAT YOU GUYS ARE
COMMITTED TO DOING WHATEVER YOU
CAN TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS IS
ALL ELECTRIC.
IT'S IT'S HARD.
IT'S WORTH IT BUT IT IS REALLY
HARD.
SO YOU HAVE TO KIND
OF PERSEVERE AND BE UNWAVERING
AND COMMITTED TO THAT.
PLEASE DON'T PUT IN THE GAS
LINE.
I HOPE IT DOESN'T HAVE A GAS
EVERWOOD IS AWESOME.
LINE.
AWESOME.
EVERWOOD IS AWESOME.
AND THE ONLY OTHER THING IS
AWESOME.
THAT AN ELECTRIC DRIVE, AN
AND THE ONLY OTHER THING IS
ELECTRIC STOVE HOPE YOU MEANT
THAT AN ELECTRIC DRIVE, AN
INDUCTIONS INDUCTION IS WAY
ELECTRIC STOVE HOPE YOU MEANT
BETTER THAN ELECTRIC.
INDUCTIONS INDUCTION IS WAY
I DON'T SEE US DOING A TON
BETTER THAN ELECTRIC.
OF STUFF COOKING IN THERE BUT
I DON'T SEE US DOING A TON
WE WILL CONSIDER ELECTRIC IS
OF STUFF COOKING IN THERE BUT
DIFFICULT.
WE WILL CONSIDER ELECTRIC IS
YEAH NO INDUCTION IS GREAT AND
DIFFICULT.
THERE'S A WORRY ABOUT LIKE
YEAH NO INDUCTION IS GREAT AND
PEOPLE TOUCHING A HOT SURFACE
THERE'S A WORRY ABOUT LIKE
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT IT LIKE
PEOPLE TOUCHING A HOT SURFACE
AND I THINK THERE'S TAX IT'S
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT IT LIKE
UNDER THE IRS STUFF I THINK
AND I THINK THERE'S TAX IT'S
SAME WITH LIKE A HEAT PUMP
UNDER THE IRS STUFF I THINK
DRYERS YOU THOSE MIGHT NOT BE
SAME WITH LIKE A HEAT PUMP
BIG ENOUGH CAPACITY.
DRYERS YOU THOSE MIGHT NOT BE
THIS IS GETTING REALLY IN THE
BIG ENOUGH CAPACITY.
WEEDS BUT THOSE JUST STUCK WITH
THIS IS GETTING REALLY IN THE
ME SO THIS IS A GREAT PROJECT,
WEEDS BUT THOSE JUST STUCK WITH
GREAT LOCATION.
ME SO THIS IS A GREAT PROJECT,
SO THANK YOU.
GREAT LOCATION.
SO I LOVE THE DESIGN AND THE
SO THANK YOU.
WHAT WAS THE FUNKY TEXTURE.
SO I LOVE THE DESIGN AND THE
YEAH IT'S AMAZING.
WHAT WAS THE FUNKY TEXTURE.
THANKS.
YEAH IT'S AMAZING.
THANK YOU.
THANKS.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS IF
THANK YOU.
NOT I THINK EVERYONE PRETTY
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS IF
MUCH COVERED A LOT OF THE
NOT I THINK EVERYONE PRETTY
QUESTIONS I HAD LAMARQUE TREES
MUCH COVERED A LOT OF THE
WE TALKED ABOUT INSUFFICIENT
QUESTIONS I HAD LAMARQUE TREES
NOTICE AND NOTICE PROVISIONS AS
WE TALKED ABOUT INSUFFICIENT
WELL AND THEN THE ENVIRONMENTAL
NOTICE AND NOTICE PROVISIONS AS
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT AND I DO
WELL AND THEN THE ENVIRONMENTAL
WANT TO ACTUALLY ADDRESS
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT AND I DO
SOMETHING THAT MR. GARBER SAID
WANT TO ACTUALLY ADDRESS
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHY DO WE HEAR
SOMETHING THAT MR. GARBER SAID
THIS ALL THE TIME?
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHY DO WE HEAR
AND THERE'S SOMETHING THAT WAS
THIS ALL THE TIME?
RUNNING THROUGH MY MIND AS YOU
AND THERE'S SOMETHING THAT WAS
SAID, THAT IS BECAUSE IT'S TO
RUNNING THROUGH MY MIND AS YOU
ME IT'S THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
SAID, THAT IS BECAUSE IT'S TO
OF SEQUENCE HERE, RIGHT?
ME IT'S THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
THERE'S A SITE PLAN AND THEN
OF SEQUENCE HERE, RIGHT?
THERE'S WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO
THERE'S A SITE PLAN AND THEN
YOU YOU HAVE A PERMIT SET, YOU
THERE'S WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE A PIT SET, YOU HAVE A
YOU YOU HAVE A PERMIT SET, YOU
CONSTRUCTION SET.
HAVE A PIT SET, YOU HAVE A
SO THERE'S THESE KINDS OF LIKE
CONSTRUCTION SET.
DIFFERENT SEGMENTS
SO THERE'S THESE KINDS OF LIKE
OF ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS THAT
DIFFERENT SEGMENTS
YOU'RE ORDERING AND KNOW FOR
OF ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS THAT
SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS LIKE
YOU'RE ORDERING AND KNOW FOR
YOURSELF AGAIN I APPLAUD YOU
SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS LIKE
GOING THROUGH THIS PROCESS IT
YOURSELF AGAIN I APPLAUD YOU
CAN BE A VERY EXPENSIVE KIND
GOING THROUGH THIS PROCESS IT
OF ORDEAL TO SAY I'M ORDERING
CAN BE A VERY EXPENSIVE KIND
AN MEP SET NOW WHEN I DON'T
OF ORDEAL TO SAY I'M ORDERING
EVEN HAVE LIKE KIND OF LIKE THE
AN MEP SET NOW WHEN I DON'T
FUNDAMENTAL BUILDING OUTLINE
EVEN HAVE LIKE KIND OF LIKE THE
DESIGN.
FUNDAMENTAL BUILDING OUTLINE
SO AS FAR AS LIKE PEDIATRIC
DESIGN.
DENTISTRY GOES, I MEAN THEY DO
SO AS FAR AS LIKE PEDIATRIC
A LOT OF CRAZY THINGS LIKE
DENTISTRY GOES, I MEAN THEY DO
PUTTING TVS ON THE CEILINGS.
A LOT OF CRAZY THINGS LIKE
THEY HAVE A LOT OF PUMP
PUTTING TVS ON THE CEILINGS.
REQUIREMENTS.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF PUMP
WE DO A LOT OF ORAL SURGERY
REQUIREMENTS.
CLINICS AND DENTISTS.
WE DO A LOT OF ORAL SURGERY
SO WE'VE GONE TO THE PROCESS.
CLINICS AND DENTISTS.
SO WHEN YOU ARE ORDERING THESE
SO WE'VE GONE TO THE PROCESS.
MANY MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL
SO WHEN YOU ARE ORDERING THESE
PLUMBING SETS, IT'S A VERY
MANY MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL
HEAVY SPEND AND THAT'S THAT'S
PLUMBING SETS, IT'S A VERY
WHEN YOU SAY I HAVE THE OUTLINE
HEAVY SPEND AND THAT'S THAT'S
AND THIS IS WHAT I'M LOOKING TO
WHEN YOU SAY I HAVE THE OUTLINE
DO.
AND THIS IS WHAT I'M LOOKING TO
THAT BID SAID IS WHEN YOU START
DO.
GETTING COMMITMENTS FROM
THAT BID SAID IS WHEN YOU START
SUBCONTRACTORS THAT SAY HEY,
GETTING COMMITMENTS FROM
THIS IS WHAT I CAN DO BEFORE
SUBCONTRACTORS THAT SAY HEY,
AND YOU SEE IF IT FITS IN YOUR
THIS IS WHAT I CAN DO BEFORE
BUDGET AND DON'T GET ME WRONG
AND YOU SEE IF IT FITS IN YOUR
DENTISTS ARE LIKE BANKERS LOVE
BUDGET AND DON'T GET ME WRONG
DENTISTS.
DENTISTS ARE LIKE BANKERS LOVE
THEY'RE LIKE OH GREAT GRADUATE
DENTISTS.
DEGREES.
THEY'RE LIKE OH GREAT GRADUATE
YEAH WE'RE HAPPY TO FUND BUT
DEGREES.
YOU HAVE TO STAY WITHIN BUDGET.
YEAH WE'RE HAPPY TO FUND BUT
AND SO I THINK THE CHALLENGE
YOU HAVE TO STAY WITHIN BUDGET.
THAT WE HAVE HERE IS AGAIN FROM
AND SO I THINK THE CHALLENGE
THE ZONING AND POWER STANDARDS
THAT WE HAVE HERE IS AGAIN FROM
OF BUILDING BASICALLY SET BACK
THE ZONING AND POWER STANDARDS
WHAT WE ARE ENUMERATOR IT TO
OF BUILDING BASICALLY SET BACK
BASICALLY ENFORCE UNDER THE UDC
WHAT WE ARE ENUMERATOR IT TO
IT IS CHALLENGING TO SIT HERE
BASICALLY ENFORCE UNDER THE UDC
AND SAY WELL YOU SHOULD HAVE
IT IS CHALLENGING TO SIT HERE
ORDERED AN EMPTY SET WHEN WE
AND SAY WELL YOU SHOULD HAVE
DON'T HAVE FINAL SAY PLAN YET.
ORDERED AN EMPTY SET WHEN WE
AND SO IT'S ASKING SOMEBODY TO
DON'T HAVE FINAL SAY PLAN YET.
SPEND MONEY PREEMPTIVELY SO
AND SO IT'S ASKING SOMEBODY TO
THAT THAT IS A CONFLICT BECAUSE
SPEND MONEY PREEMPTIVELY SO
CERTAINLY I AGREE WITH YOU.
THAT THAT IS A CONFLICT BECAUSE
I'D LOVE TO SEE MORE
CERTAINLY I AGREE WITH YOU.
STIPULATIONS AND YOU KNOW, THE
I'D LOVE TO SEE MORE
COMMITMENT SHOULD BE THERE BUT
STIPULATIONS AND YOU KNOW, THE
IT IS JUST A SEQUENCING ISSUE
COMMITMENT SHOULD BE THERE BUT
BECAUSE AGAIN YOU GO FOR A
IT IS JUST A SEQUENCING ISSUE
PERMITS THAT BEFORE YOU EVEN
BECAUSE AGAIN YOU GO FOR A
BUT YOU JUST YOU SAY I HAVE
PERMITS THAT BEFORE YOU EVEN
FIRE LIFE SAFETY EGRESSING
BUT YOU JUST YOU SAY I HAVE
GRASS.
FIRE LIFE SAFETY EGRESSING
THESE ARE THE ITEMS THAT I'M
GRASS.
GOING TO TACKLE TO GET THINGS
THESE ARE THE ITEMS THAT I'M
MOVING WITH THE CITY AND THEN
GOING TO TACKLE TO GET THINGS
AT A CERTAIN POINT YOU'RE GOING
MOVING WITH THE CITY AND THEN
TO START PULLING TRIGGER ON
AT A CERTAIN POINT YOU'RE GOING
THESE DIFFERENT SEQUENCES SO
TO START PULLING TRIGGER ON
THAT THAT'S I THINK THE KIND
THESE DIFFERENT SEQUENCES SO
OF CHALLENGE THAT WE HAVE.
THAT THAT'S I THINK THE KIND
WE ARE ASKING FOR COMMITMENTS
OF CHALLENGE THAT WE HAVE.
BEFORE THEY HAVE HAD A CHANCE
WE ARE ASKING FOR COMMITMENTS
TO SAY LINE BY LINE WITH
BEFORE THEY HAVE HAD A CHANCE
COMMITMENTS FROM SUBS.
TO SAY LINE BY LINE WITH
HEY, THIS IS IN MY BUDGET.
COMMITMENTS FROM SUBS.
SO I CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND THE
HEY, THIS IS IN MY BUDGET.
CONUNDRUM.
SO I CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND THE
WE CERTAINLY WANT TO SEE THE
CONUNDRUM.
COMMITMENT BUT I ALSO
WE CERTAINLY WANT TO SEE THE
UNDERSTAND WHY THEY CAN'T
COMMITMENT BUT I ALSO
BASICALLY THEY JUST DON'T WANT
UNDERSTAND WHY THEY CAN'T
TO MAKE PROMISES THEY CAN'T
BASICALLY THEY JUST DON'T WANT
NECESSARILY KEEP THIS PROJECT.
TO MAKE PROMISES THEY CAN'T
THEY MIGHT GO THROUGH THE
NECESSARILY KEEP THIS PROJECT.
ENTIRE ENTIRE ENTITLEMENTS
THEY MIGHT GO THROUGH THE
PROCESS AT THE END OF IT THEY
ENTIRE ENTIRE ENTITLEMENTS
SAY WOW, WE'RE LIKE FORTY
PROCESS AT THE END OF IT THEY
PERCENT OF OUR BUDGET.
SAY WOW, WE'RE LIKE FORTY
WHAT ARE WE DOING RIGHT.
PERCENT OF OUR BUDGET.
SO I THINK THERE'S A CHALLENGE
WHAT ARE WE DOING RIGHT.
.
SO I THINK THERE'S A CHALLENGE
I CERTAINLY HEAR YOU AND THREE
.
TO ZERO PLAN IS SOMETHING THAT
I CERTAINLY HEAR YOU AND THREE
WE AGREE TO AS A COMMUNITY.
TO ZERO PLAN IS SOMETHING THAT
SO I'D LOVE AGAIN AS A CITIZEN
WE AGREE TO AS A COMMUNITY.
OF ANN ARBOR PLEASE TRY TO
SO I'D LOVE AGAIN AS A CITIZEN
EXPLORE THEM WITH GOOD FAITH.
OF ANN ARBOR PLEASE TRY TO
I THINK THE HORIZONTAL
EXPLORE THEM WITH GOOD FAITH.
GEOTHERMAL DEFINITELY WORTH IT.
I THINK THE HORIZONTAL
BUT AS YOU INDICATED ABOUT THE
GEOTHERMAL DEFINITELY WORTH IT.
MAP, IT'S SIMPLY JUST LOOKING
BUT AS YOU INDICATED ABOUT THE
AT THE SEQUENCING OF THINGS I
MAP, IT'S SIMPLY JUST LOOKING
DON'T SEE HOW SOMEBODY COULD
AT THE SEQUENCING OF THINGS I
ORDER THAT MLP HIRING A TEAM
DON'T SEE HOW SOMEBODY COULD
OF ENGINEERS TO ESSENTIALLY
ORDER THAT MLP HIRING A TEAM
DESIGN THE MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
OF ENGINEERS TO ESSENTIALLY
PRIOR TO ACTUALLY EVEN HAVING
DESIGN THE MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
AN OUTLINE.
PRIOR TO ACTUALLY EVEN HAVING
SO OTHER THAN THAT, YEAH, WE
AN OUTLINE.
COVERED PRETTY MUCH TREES NOTIS
SO OTHER THAN THAT, YEAH, WE
I THINK THAT JUST FOR
COVERED PRETTY MUCH TREES NOTIS
PROCEDURAL CLARIFICATION AND
I THINK THAT JUST FOR
STAFF THIS IS A SITE PLAN BY
PROCEDURAL CLARIFICATION AND
RIGHT.
STAFF THIS IS A SITE PLAN BY
SO THIS ENDS HERE, RIGHT.
RIGHT.
THIS DOESN'T GO TO COUNCIL.
SO THIS ENDS HERE, RIGHT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THIS DOESN'T GO TO COUNCIL.
CORRECT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO THESE MOTIONS BEING TAKEN
CORRECT.
TOGETHER WILL BE THE APPROVAL
SO THESE MOTIONS BEING TAKEN
OF THE SITE PLAN, CORRECT?
TOGETHER WILL BE THE APPROVAL
OK, COOL THAT IS ALL I HAVE TO
OF THE SITE PLAN, CORRECT?
SAY.
OK, COOL THAT IS ALL I HAVE TO
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE THAT
SAY.
WANTS TO HAVE THE FINAL WORDS
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE THAT
BEFORE WE GO TO ROLL-CALL VOTE
WANTS TO HAVE THE FINAL WORDS
ON ROLL CALL PLEASE
BEFORE WE GO TO ROLL-CALL VOTE
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
ON ROLL CALL PLEASE
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WAGE.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
YES.
MOTION CHRIS THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
CONGRATULATIONS.
MOTION CHRIS THANK YOU.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO ITEM NINE A
CONGRATULATIONS.
WE'RE AT NINE O'CLOCK RIGHT
WE ARE MOVING ON TO ITEM NINE A
NOW.
WE'RE AT NINE O'CLOCK RIGHT
I WILL BE RECUSING MYSELF FROM
NOW.
THIS DISCUSSION SINCE IT
I WILL BE RECUSING MYSELF FROM
INVOLVES THE ONE DISTRICT AS MY
THIS DISCUSSION SINCE IT
EMPLOYER OWNS PROPERTY IN THE
INVOLVES THE ONE DISTRICT AS MY
SECOND DISTRICT.
EMPLOYER OWNS PROPERTY IN THE
SO I WILL BE HANDING OVER THIS
SECOND DISTRICT.
TO COMMISSIONER VICE CHAIR AVIS
SO I WILL BE HANDING OVER THIS
.
TO COMMISSIONER VICE CHAIR AVIS
OH, I DON'T KNOW.
.
YOU GO HERE OF FIVE MINUTES.
OH, I DON'T KNOW.
YES, I'M SORRY.
YOU GO HERE OF FIVE MINUTES.
I JUST THINK ORIENTING MYSELF
YES, I'M SORRY.
TO THE WORLD IT'S NINE O'CLOCK.
I JUST THINK ORIENTING MYSELF
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A FIVE
TO THE WORLD IT'S NINE O'CLOCK.
MINUTE BREAK SO WE WILL RESUME
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A FIVE
AT NINE 05.
MINUTE BREAK SO WE WILL RESUME
THANK YOU
.
THAT WORKED AND WAITING FOR
SEATON TO BE BACK.
OK, WELCOME BACK TO OUR MEETING
PICKING UP WHERE WE LEFT OFF.
WE ARE NOW GOING TO MOVE TO
ITEM NINE A AND THIS IS A
PETITION REGARDING THE C ONE
DISTRICT NARROW RIGHTS OF WAY
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED GOVERNMENT CODE .
THIS IS A PROPOSED DC AMENDMENT
FOUR RECOMMENDATION TO CITY
COUNCIL STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WILL BEGIN WITH A
STAFF PRESENTATION BY MAX
KELLY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I WILL EXPAND MY SCREEN HERE.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT IN
ADDITION TO MY PRESENTATION FOR
Q&A WE HAVE ON THE LINE WE
ASSUME ALSO PLANER DELIO, OUR
RESIDENT TUQAY ONE EXPERT SO
SHE WILL BE ON HAND AS WELL.
JUST I WANT TO AS WE'RE LOOKING
THROUGH WHAT WE'LL TALK THROUGH
WITH THIS ITEM THERE WERE A
NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS IN
ADDITION TO STAFF REPORT ON
THIS ITEM IF YOU DID NOT GET A
CHANCE TO LOOK AT ALL OF THE
ATTACHMENTS JUST WANTED TO DRAW
YOUR ATTENTION TO THEM.
JUST AN OVERVIEW OF WHAT ONE
INTENDED TO DO PROMOTE MIXED
USE, PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
REDEVELOPMENT, REDUCE VEHICLE
TRAVEL, INCREASE DESTINATION
ACCESS, OFFER HOUSING OPTIONS
WHILE EASING REGULATORY
CONSTRAINTS LIKE FLOOR AREA
RATIO.
THIS PRESENTATION IS ONE OF A
TWO PARTER.
RESPONDING TO COUNCIL
RESOLUTION ARE TWENTY TWO THREE
NINETY WHICH DIRECTED THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO CONSIDER
MODIFICATIONS TO THE TCE ONE
ZONING DISTRICT.
AS YOU HEARD AT THE BEGINNING
OF THIS MEETING, THE FIRST PART
OF THAT TO INCORPORATE LIMITED
AUTOMOBILE RELATED USES WAS
BROUGHT TO YOU FIRST AND IT WAS
JUST PASSED YESTERDAY EVENING
AND AFTER PRESENTING AT SOME
WORKING SESSIONS AND NOW YOU
HAVE BEFORE YOU THE SECOND PART
WHICH IS TO ADDRESS CONSTRAINTS
OF EXISTING NARROW RIGHT TO
PLAY.
SO WHAT IS TONIGHT'S MOTION AND
STAFF RECOMMENDATION?
IT IS TO MODIFY SECTION FIVE
POINT TEN POINT TWO TO
ESTABLISH TRANSIT CORRIDOR IS A
STREET TYPE DESIGNATION WITH A
REFERENCE MAP SO SIMILAR TO THE
DOWNTOWN OVERLAY ZONING
REFERENCE MAP WHICH WE HAVE
ALSO RENAMED AS A STREET TYPE
DESIGNATION MAP FOR CONSISTENCY
AND TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN TO PROVIDE SETBACKS
BASED ON THIS DESIGNATION WITH
TWENTY MINIMUMS AND FORTY FOUR
MAXIMUMS MEASURED FROM
COLOURBLIND AND TO CLARIFY SOME
OTHER PARAMETERS RELATED TO
THOSE TWO WHAT IS THE GOAL
OF THESE AMENDMENTS PRIMARILY
SOMETHING VERY SIMPLE.
THIS IS NOT A CURE ALL.
IT'S NOT A SILVER BULLET.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT NEW
BUILDINGS ARE NOT BLOCKING
POSSIBILITIES AND FUTURE NEEDS
OF OUR SIDEWALKS AND ALSO AT
THE SAME TIME LIMIT THE
FURTHEST DISTANCE OF BUILDINGS
TO FORTY FEET FROM CURB OR THE
FRONT LINE WHICHEVER IS
CLOSEST.
AND THESE SETBACKS WE'RE UNDER
NO ILLUSIONS ARE NOT A
SUBSTITUTE FOR OTHER THINGS A
ROBUST CORRIDOR STUDY OR
DEVELOPMENT VISION TAILORED BY
LOCATION DESIGN GUIDELINES
WHICH WOULD BE INFORMED BY EACH
CORRIDOR LOCATION CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS TO FUND DESIRED
STREETSCAPES OR RIGHT OF WAY
ACQUISITION ITSELF.
THIS IS TO KEEP BUILDINGS OUT
OF SPACES THAT THEY'LL BE AN
OBSTACLE.
THE APPLICABLE CORRIDORS ARE
THE CURRENT ONE ZONED AREAS
STAYTON EISENHAUER STADIUM
M'APPELLE CORRIDORS AND ALSO
THOSE JUST TO TEE UP.
ALTHOUGH THE MAP IS NOT DOES
NOT INCLUDE PLIMOTH IN
WASHTENAW THAT IT WOULD ALSO
EVENTUALLY ENCOMPASS THOSE
QUARTERS ONCE RESOLVED.
SO JUST TO DOVE A LITTLE DEEPER
INTO THE PROBLEM DEFINITION
OF WHAT WAS PRESENTED TO US BY
COUNCIL TRYING TO ADDRESS
INCONSISTENT FRONTAGES SOME
OF OUR FRONTALOT LINES ARE VERY
CLOSE TO CURBS.
IN FACT THEY OVERLAP OR
ONE
WITH OUR CURVED LINES OR
SOMETIMES THEY'RE VERY FAR
AWAY.
OUR CURRENT SET BACKS ALLOW
BUILDING THE FRONT LOT LINES
EVEN IF THAT IS TWO FEET FROM
THE CURB EVEN IF THE MAX
SETBACK OF FIFTEEN FEET IS
UTILIZED, THAT'S NOT REQUIRED
RIGHT NOW AND SO WE ARE STILL
KIND OF AT THE MERCY
OF NEGOTIATIONS.
THAT'S OUR CURRENT REQUIREMENT.
WE'RE REQUESTING THAT
DEVELOPERS PETITIONERS WORK
WITH US TO DO THE RIGHT THING A
WALKABLE AND JUST FINALLY
WALKABLE TRANSIT FRIENDLY
INFILL.
THIS IS THIS IS SO CORE TO ONE
CAN ONLY HAPPEN WITH HIGH
PEDESTRIAN COMFORT IN SPACE FOR
THE AMENITIES THAT PROVIDE THEM
COMFORT TO WALK AT THE BOTTOM
IS A TABLE ON THIS SLIDE OF THE
EXISTING RIGHT AWAY FROM CURB
TO PROPERTY LINE AS MEASURED BY
OUR VERY OWN MR. LEONARD THINK
WE DID NOT QUITE ASCERTAIN THE
THE MAXIMUM ON MAPLE BUT JUST
FOR A FLAVOR OF WHAT IS OUT
THERE TODAY WE HAVE ON THE SEAT
AND EISENHAUER I'M SORRY STATE
STREET CORRIDOR OF FLAT LINED
VARYING FROM ZERO FEET FROM
CURB TO FIFTY FEET FROM CURB ON
EISENHAUER ELEVEN TO SIXTY FIVE
FEET ON STADIUM ZERO TO 14 FEET
MAPLE AS LOW AS TWO FOR SURE
POTENTIALLY UP HIGHER FOOTAGE
ON MAPLE ZERO TO SIXTY NINE AND
ON WASHTENAW ZERO TO THIRTY
WHICH IT IT'S JUST A GOOD
EXAMPLE OF THE VARIABILITY
OF OUR PROPERTY LINES AND WHAT
WE'RE ABLE TO ACCOMPLISH WITHIN
PROPERTY LINE REGULATION ALONE
AS AS IN THE CURRENT REGULATION
NOT MEASURED FROM CURB STATE
STREET AT HILTON.
THESE ARE EXAMPLES FROM OUR
CURRENT DC ONE ZONING DISTRICT.
THIS FIRST EXAMPLE IS NEAR
BRIARWOOD MALL JUST NORTH
OF NINETY FOUR EXISTING ONE
SETBACKS HERE WOULD ALLOW BUT
NOT REQUIRE APPROXIMATELY
TWENTY FEET FROM THE BACK
OF COLOURBLIND.
I DID LOOK BACK THROUGH THE
TWENTY SEVEN DECEMBER TWENTY
SEVENTEEN SOUTH STATE STREET
CORNER STUDY IT ENVISIONED A
TEN FOOT TREE LINE IN THIS AREA
WITH A FIVE FOOT SIDEWALK.
I THINK STAFF WOULD AGREE THAT
THE TREE LINE SPACE IS CORRECT
BUT A WIDER SIDEWALK THAN A
FIVE FOOT MINIMUM WHICH IS
ALMOST AT THE BARE MINIMUM
STANDARD IS PROBABLY NOT
APPROPRIATE HERE.
SO THE QUARTER STUDY FOR THIS
AREA DID RECOMMEND BASICALLY A
15 FOOT MINIMUM WHICH WE WOULD
ENCOURAGE EXCEEDING
NEXT TO AN
EXAMPLE AT WEST EISENHOWER S
MAIN ALSO JUST NEAR BRIARWOOD
MALL.
THE EXISTING ONE SETBACKS WOULD
ALLOW BUT NOT REQUIRE SIXTY
FIVE FEET FROM BACK
OF COLOURBLIND SO FIFTY FEET
PLUS THE ZERO TO FIFTEEN FEET
FIVE FIFTEEN FROM THE FRONT
LINE BEING OUR CURRENT
REGULATION OF WEST EISENHOWER
AND FORTY THREE FEET FROM BACK
OF CURB ON SOUTH MAIN THE
MEASUREMENT ISN'T SHOWN OF SO
THE PROPOSED SET BACK WOULD
LIMIT THE BUILDING THAT BACK TO
THE FRONT PROPERTY LINE
LOCATION SO WOULD ACTUALLY
REDUCE THE SETBACK IN THIS
SCENARIO ON ONE SIDE BY THREE
FEET ON ANOTHER SIDE BY AT A
MINIMUM 10 FEET THEN MOVING
ONTO JUST HAVE A HANDFUL
OF THESE EXAMPLES TO SHOW THE
THE VARIATION OF WHAT'S OUT
THERE.
THIS IS WEST STADIUM AT
AUBURNDALE.
THIS IS SPEEDWAY LOCATION ON
THE TOP CORNER THERE'S FIVE
LANES OF ROAD HERE BUT WE HAVE
ABOUT FIVE FEET FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE TO THE CURB THAT
AND UNDER CURRENT REGULATIONS
BUILDING COULD BE BUILT RIGHT
UP TO THAT PROPERTY LINE AND
YOU WOULD BE BETWEEN FIVE LANES
OF TRAFFIC IN A BUILDING WITH
NO SPACE FOR A DOOR SWING ZONE.
VERY UNCOMFORTABLE, NOT VERY
COMPATIBLE WITH OUR GOALS FOR
TAXI ONE.
SO EXISTING SETBACKS HERE WOULD
ALLOW BUT THEY WOULD NOT
REQUIRE TWENTY FEET FROM THE
CURB LINE.
THIS EXAMPLE AT NORTH MAPLE AND
JACKSON SHOWED QUITE A LOT
OF VARIATION ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
THAT TRIANGLE CUT OUT ON THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER WAS ABOUT
SIXTY FEET FROM THE THE THE
TURN THE CENTER OF THE THE TURN
RADIUS OF THE CURB TO THE
PROPERTY LINE ON THE NORTH SIDE
I'VE SHOWN A DISTANCE ON THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THIRTY FEET
AND THEN YOU CAN SEE ON THE
NORTHEAST CORNER THERE'S NO
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE CURB AND
THE PROPERTY LINE AS YOU MOVE A
LITTLE BIT FARTHER SOUTH AND
SOUTH MAPLE THERE IS A
WINNOWING OF THE DISTANCE THAT
GOES FROM SIXTY FEET DOWN TO
ONE POINT ONE POINT SEVEN IS
WHAT I WAS ABLE TO MEASURE FROM
OUR INTERNAL GUIDES TOOLS.
SO THIS IS ALL OF THE CORNERS
OF THIS INTERSECTION WOULD FALL
UNDER THE PROPOSED SET BACKS
WITH STADIUM WEST LIBERTY
ALMOST ALL OF THE FRONT LINE
CORNERS ARE THREE FEET FROM THE
CURB.
THIS IS THERE'S PINCH POINTS
BASICALLY ON EVERY CORNER WHERE
WE WOULD STRUGGLE WITHOUT AGAIN
A LOT AND THIS WOULD STILL BE
THE CASE.
BUT I THINK WE WOULD HAVE LESS
REGULATORY BARGAINING POWER.
WE WOULD HAVE TO HAVE A
NEGOTIATION AND EACH OF THESE
CORNERS IF THEY WERE TO BE
REDEVELOPED WITH PROPERTY
OWNERS TO GET ADEQUATE RIGHT
OF WAY.
WASHTENAW TERMER THOMAS DRIVE
THIS IS A PROPOSED ONE OF OUR
PROPOSED ZONES IN WASHINGTON
AND THIS IS RIGHT IN FRONT
OF YOU'VE SEEN THE VITAMIN SHOP
BUSINESS RIGHT HERE THAT IS THE
EXISTING SET BACKS WOULD ALLOW
BUT NOT REQUIRE 15 FEET BACK ON
THE SIDEWALK HERE IS ABOUT TEN
FEET SO YOU'RE GETTING ABOUT AN
EXTRA FIVE FEET FROM THE BACK
OF CURB I JUST SHOWED HERE WHAT
TWENTY FEET WOULD BE AND IF YOU
CAN KEEP YOUR MIND FIXED ON
THIS LOCATION, THIS LITTLE
SHADOW THING HERE IS A FOR
LEASE SIGN AND I'LL SHOW IT TO
YOU.
SO TWENTY FEET WOULD BE JUST
BEFORE THIS FOR AT LEAST SIGN
IT WOULD BASICALLY DOUBLE THE
SIDEWALK BUT IN THE FUTURE
MAYBE POSSIBLY WE COULD SWAP A
SIDEWALK WITH A TREE LINE SO
YOU WOULD BE WALKING CLOSER TO
IS A BUSINESS THE VITAMIN SHOP
IS JUST OVER FORTY FEET I THINK
IT'S FORTY THREE FEET FROM BACK
A CURB.
THESE AREN'T SUPER PRECISE
MEASUREMENTS BUT TO GIVE YOU A
SENSE OF HOW CLOSE IT FEELS AND
WHAT A VARIATION WOULD BE,
THAT'S A SETUP.
SO OUR PROPOSED SOLUTION AND
RATIONALE WITHOUT SILVER
BULLETS WITHOUT HAVING A HUGE
EFFORT TO STUDY IN DEPTH EACH
ONE OF THESE CORRIDORS TO JUST
GET BUILDINGS OUT OF THE WAY TO
PUT US IN A BETTER BARGAINING
POSITION TO PRESERVE A FUTURE
THAT WILL ACTUALLY BE WORKABLE
FOR THE VISION OF ONE WE
PROPOSE TO CONSISTENTLY REQUIRE
BUILDINGS BE TWENTY FEET TO
FORTY FEET OR FROM THE BACK
OF CURB OR THEIR FRONT LINE
OF THE DISTANCE FROM THE CURB
IS GREATER AND FORTY FEET AND
TO LIMIT THIS REQUIREMENT TO
TAILOR IT JUST TO TRANSIT
CORRIDORS AS DEFINED IN THE
STREET DESIGNATION MAP LEAVING
THE OTHER SETBACKS UNCHANGED.
SO SIDE STREETS THEY HAVE
LIMITED RIGHT OF WAY.
WE ARE NOT TACKLING THAT AT
THIS TIME.
IT COULD STILL BE AGAIN AS SOME
OF THE OTHER EXAMPLES I JUST
GAVE BE WORKED OUT WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND I WANT TO ONE ON
ONE BASIS BUT WE'RE WORRIED
ABOUT THOSE REALLY LARGE FIVE
LANE ROADS THE THE TRANSIT
CORRIDORS AND THE LARGE
ARTERIALS THAT ARE IN THESE
DISTRICTS.
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS ACCOUNT
FOR DESIRABLE WALKABLE
CONDITIONS, WORK BACKWARD FROM
SPACE.
THEY WILL NEED.
SO SOME OF THE RATIONALE FOR
HOW WE LANDED WITH TWENTY TO
FORTY FEET THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF CITY
TRANSPORTATION OFFICIALS IT'S
HIGHLY RESPECTED PROGRESSIVE
ORGANIZATION IN THE SPACE
OF URBAN TRANSPORTATION.
THEY SHOWN HERE IS AN IMAGE
OF WHAT'S OFTEN CALLED THE
PEDESTRIAN ZONE.
IT CAN BE BROKEN UP INTO
DIFFERENT DIFFERENT SLICES
FRONTAGE ZONE NEXT TO BUILDING
PEDESTRIANS JUST FOR WALKING
SOMETHING THAT SOMETIMES CALLED
AN AMENITIES ON A FURNISHING
ZONE, A LANDSCAPING ZONE
GENERALLY WHERE TREES GO OR
BIKE RACKS GO WHERE BENCHES GO
AND THEN THERE ARE OTHER ZONES
THAT YOU CAN CREATE BUT THEY
SPECIFICALLY WEIGH IN NOT ON
THOSE OTHER ZONES BUT JUST ON
THE WALKING ZONE AND SAY IF
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A DOWNTOWN
OR COMMERCIAL AREA REALLY IT
SHOULD BE EIGHT TO 12 FEET.
TRY NOT TO GO BELOW EIGHT TO 12
FEET SO WE TOOK THAT IN IN
MIND.
THAT'S ONE OF THE BIG, BIG
SPACE ROCKS IN A GOOD WAY
SPACE
FOR PEOPLE.
ANOTHER ONE OF THE BIG, BIG
SPACE HOGS THAT WE'RE WORKING
BACKWARD FROM ONE OF THE BIG
USERS IS TREES.
AND IF YOU HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK
THROUGH THE STAFF REPORT,
YOU'LL SEE THAT THERE IS QUITE
A BIT OF INFORMATION DEDICATED
TO TALKING ABOUT TREES AND THE
REASON FOR THAT IS BECAUSE THEY
PROVIDE SO MANY BENEFITS IF
THEY CAN GROW REALLY TALL AND
WIDE AND ARE HEALTHY BUT THEY
NEED A LOT OF SPACE TO DO THAT.
AND I SPOKE WITH FOLKS IN FOUR
URBAN FORESTRY.
THE CITY TRIED TO CONSULT AS
MUCH UP TO DATE INFORMATION ON
THIS TOPIC IS REASONABLE AND
FOR THE LARGE MEDIUM TO LARGE
VARIETIES OF TREES THAT WE
REALLY WANT THAT ARE GOING TO
GIVE US COOLING EFFECT THAT ARE
GOING TO GIVE US BUFFERING FROM
TRAFFIC THAT ARE GOING TO MAKE
PEOPLE'S STRESS LEVELS LOWER
THAT ARE GOING TO ABSORB STORM
WATER.
THEY NEED BASICALLY EIGHT TO 10
FEET TO THEN THEY NEED KIND
OF A MINIMUM OF EIGHT FEET.
SO NOW OUR MINIMUMS KIND
LOOKING AT 16 FEET SO YOU CAN
SEE WHERE YOU START TO GROW
THAT SPACE.
SOME OTHER RATIONALE TO RESPOND
TO THE CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
SPECIFICALLY THEY ASKED ABOUT
BENCHES, BUS SHELTERS, BIKE
RACKS.
SO WE LOOKED INTO THOSE AND
EVEN LOOKING AT THOSE YOU KIND
OF IF YOU WANT TO HAVE BUS
SHELTERS WANT TO KEEP ABOUT
SIX, SEVEN FEET AND THAT'S FOR
A SMALL BUS SHELTER.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT GROWING
SERVICE SUN SETTING FUELING
STATIONS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AGGRESSIVE
TARGETS FOR FOUR HOUR MOVING
TOGETHER PLAN TO SHIFT MODES
YOU KIND NEED REALLY GOOD
TRANSIT AMENITIES FOR THAT AND
THIS IS REFERENCING JUST THE
BARE MINIMUM.
ANOTHER RATIONALE JUST BECAUSE
IT MAY NOT BE COMMON KNOWLEDGE
FOR EVERYONE IN TERMS OF BUS
STOP WAITING AREA YOU DO NEED
IN ORDER TO USE FEDERAL FUNDS
TO SITE BUS STOPS AND YOU MAY
EVEN BE PUTTING YOURSELF AT
SOME LEGAL PERIL IF YOU DO IT
WITHOUT FEDERAL FUNDS TO PUT IN
PAVED BOARDING AREA YOU'RE
SUPPOSED UP EIGHT FEET
PERPENDICULAR TO THE CURB TO DO
THAT.
IT CAN INCLUDE THE SIDEWALK.
SOMETIMES YOU'LL SEE SOMETHING
FUNKY WHERE THERE WILL BE A
PAVED AREA AT A BUS STOP AND
THEN THE SIDEWALK AND THEN LIKE
ANOTHER FOOT OF PAVED AREA OR
TWO FEET OF PAVED AREA THAT'S
REALLY TO MEET THIS PRO PUBLICA
RIGHTS AWAY ACCESSIBILITY
GUIDELINES, ACCESS BOARD
REGULATIONS.
SO IF YOU PROVIDE TO BEGIN WITH
YOU AVOID SOME KIND OF WEIRD
MATH IN CASE BY CASE SITUATIONS
YOU HAVE TO DO AND YOU JUST
HAVE THE SPACE THAT YOU NEED.
THERE IS PRECEDENT FOR
MEASURING FROM CURB.
WE TRIED TO GET IN TOUCH WITH
COLLEAGUES A LITTLE OVER A
MONTH OR SO AGO IN GAINESVILLE
TO SEE IF WE COULD TALK TO THEM
BECAUSE THEY DO DO THIS
ACTUALLY THEY PRESCRIBE BY THE
AREA OF THE SIDEWALKS SO THEY
DEFINE THIS IS HOW MUCH WE WANT
FOR LANDSCAPING.
THIS IS HOW MUCH WE WANT FOR
SIDEWALKS AND THIS IS HOW MUCH
WE WANT FOR OUR BUILDING
FRONTAGE ZONE AND THEY DO THIS
ACROSS A VARIETY OF TRANSECTS
AND ASSUMING THAT THEY HAVE A
FORM FORM BASE CODE OR
SOMETHING SIMILAR.
SO JUST IN THE STAFF REPORT
THERE WERE THERE WAS A KIND
OF TWO PAGE TABLE THAT JUST
REFLECTS CONVERSATIONS THAT
HAPPENED.
YOUR WORKING SESSION IN THAT
WAS IN MAY.
NOW WHERE WE TALKED ABOUT THIS
AND ALSO CONVERSATIONS THAT
HAPPENED AS WE WERE TEASING OUT
HOW TO APPROACH THIS INTERNALLY
STAFF JUST AGAIN I'M GOING TO
ADD A DISCLAIMER THAT ADDING
NEW BACK LANGUAGE DOESN'T
NECESSARILY DOESN'T
AUTOMATICALLY REQUIRE NECESSARY
SPACE FOR PEDESTRIANS AND
TRANSIT USERS WHERE IT'S
LACKING.
IT DOESN'T SOLVE THE NEED FOR
CONVERSATIONS AND ACTION ON
TOPICS LIKE EASEMENTS,
DONATIONS, CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
AND A PROPERTY OR CITY WIDE
BASIS.
IT JUST MAKES SURE THAT THAT
POSSIBILITY REMAINS OPEN
BECAUSE THERE'S NOT A BUILDING
IN THE WAY THAT WE REQUIRED TO
BE THERE.
SO JUST A FEW OF THOSE ONE
OF THE BIGGER CONVERSATIONS
EXCUSE ME THAT CAME UP DURING
THE WORKING SESSION WAS
RELOCATING CURBS INSTEAD
OF BUILDINGS.
THIS DEVOTED QUITE A BIT
OF TEXT TO THIS.
THIS IS VERY DIFFICULT TO
ACCOMPLISH BECAUSE UTILITIES
ARE SITUATED ADJACENT TO THE
CURB INCLUDES WATER LINES, GAS
LINES, STORMWATER
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SOME OF THOSE HAVE THEIR OWN
EASEMENTS ALREADY THAT WE'VE
SAID YES, YOU CAN ACCESS THIS
SPACE AND START TO MOVE THINGS
.
IT HAS A LITTLE BIT OF A DOMINO
EFFECT THAT CAN BE CHALLENGING,
CAN ADD A LOT OF COST.
ALSO WE NEED SPACE FOR ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION, TRANSIT
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE CENTRAL
ROLE OF CERTAIN STREETS FOR
URBAN FREIGHT.
AT SOME POINT YOU YOU DO HAVE
TO ALLOCATE A HIERARCHY
OF ROADS TO SAY ON SOME STREETS
WE WILL ALLOW TRUCKS UNTIL
TRUCKS ARE SUNSET FROM OUR
CITIES.
BUT THAT'S NOT TODAY.
SO WITH DEDICATED SPACE FOR
OTHER NEEDS LIKE THOSE JUST
MENTIONED THE EXCESS SPACE THAT
MAY BE PERCEIVED IN THE
ROADWAYS QUICKLY EVAPORATES.
I GAVE SOME EXAMPLES IN THE
TABLE THAT WAS IN THE STAFF
REPORT FOR EXAMPLE TRANSIT
LANES ARE OFTEN JUST A LITTLE
BIT WIDER THAN REGULAR LANES,
BIKE LANES IF YOU WANT THEM TO
BE BUFFERED THEY YOU YOU KNOW,
UNLESS YOU WANT SOMEONE TO JUST
RIDE IN WHAT YOU KNOW ENGINEERS
MIGHT REFER TO AS A GUTTER PAN
YOU YOU THAT'S GOING TO BE
WIDER THAN FIVE FEET IF IT
BECOMES A TO A PSYCHOPATH IT
GETS WIDER DEDICATED SPACE FOR
TRANSIT MEANS THAT YOU HAVE TO
THINK DIFFERENTLY ABOUT YOUR
GENERAL PURPOSE LANES.
SO IN SOME IT'S IMPERATIVE TO
PLAN FOR AND ANTICIPATE THE
GOALS OF INTROVERTS KEY
CORRIDORS BEFORE ACCEPTING TO
ALTER THEIR CURB TO CURB WHAT'S
SO JUST I WON'T GO THROUGH ALL
THESE.
I'LL REVISIT THEM IN DISCUSSION
IF COMMISSIONERS WOULD LIKE BUT
JUST DRAWING YOUR ATTENTION TO
THEM THAT THEY ARE IN YOUR
PACKET THAT COMPLETES MY
PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU.
I WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THE PROPOSED KEESEY ONE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT WOULD
AMENDMENTS OR WE WILL FIRST
CALL ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PESTANA IF LISTENING
BY PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IS VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND INTER
MEETING AND NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND IN
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
MUTE TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS SO YOU MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME.
THANKS MR. ABRAMS.
CAN YARBER AGAIN I KNOW GYPO
ABOUT SETBACKS.
I'VE DEVOTED ZERO MINUTES OF MY
LIFE TO THINKING ABOUT THEM OR
TALKING ABOUT THEM BUT I JUST
SINCE I'M HERE I JUST THOUGHT
TO GIVE A FEW IMPRESSIONS.
FIRST OF ALL FANTASTIC STAFF
PRESENTATION AND REPORT AND
STAFF REPORT HUGE AMOUNT
OF RESEARCH AND THOUGHT WENT
INTO THE THE GRAPHICS AND THE
ARGUMENTS AND COUNTERARGUMENTS
I THOUGHT A TREMENDOUS ALMOST
AN ACADEMIC EXERCISE REALLY
GOOD.
I GUESS THE 20 TO 40 FEET THING
IS A BIG QUESTION AND IT SEEMS
SENSIBLE TO ME.
JUST ONE QUESTION I HAVE IT I
NOTICED IN THE IN THE
PEDESTRIAN ZONE ILLUSTRATION
THAT WAS SHOWN JUST NOW IT HAD
A BIKE LANE OFF THE STREET
BASICALLY ON THE IN THE
PEDESTRIAN ZONE AND I'M
WONDERING IF THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE SHOULD IS UNDER
CONSIDERATION ARE WE ARE WE
ALWAYS GOING TO HAVE TO RUN
BIKE LANES IN THE ROADWAY
WASHTENAW RIGHT NOW IT'S
PROBABLY FATAL TO TRY RIDE DOWN
THAT ALTHOUGH I KNOW PEOPLE WHO
DO IT.
YOU KNOW, REGARDING THE
RELOCATION CURVE ARGUMENT.
YEAH, I'D LIKE TO SEE NARROWER
ARTERIAL ROADWAYS IS WELL IT
SOUNDS LIKE THIS PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES TO THAT BUT
BASICALLY MY PERSPECTIVE IS
THAT OF A BIKE RIDER AND I WANT
TO SEE THAT STREAMLINING
FACILITATED AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE
.
SO IF IT TAKES THE 20 TO 40
FEET STANDARD TO DO IT, I IN
FAVOR OF THAT.
OTHER THAN THAT I HAVE NO
COHERENT THOUGHTS ABOUT THIS
WHATSOEVER AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO YOUR DISCUSSION WHICH I'M
SURE WILL BE MUCH MORE NUANCED
AND EDUCATED.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE IS ADAM DISCOURAGED YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
HI THIS IS ADAM MOSCOVITZ.
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS
DRIVE.
I WAS GOING TO HAVE A FEW
QUESTIONS BUT I THINK THAT THEY
ARE MOSTLY ANSWERED IN THE
POTENTIAL COUNTERARGUMENTS
SECTION OF THE OF THE STAFF
REPORT WHICH I THINK IS IS
REALLY GREAT THE WAY THAT
THAT'S THAT THAT'S DONE LIKE A
LOT OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I DID
HAVE ON THIS, IT'S LIKE
HEY,
THERE'S MY QUESTION AND THERE'S
AND THERE'S AN ANSWER TO IT.
SO THAT'S PRETTY COOL.
I THINK THE ONE THING THAT I DO
STILL HAVE KIND OF A QUESTION
ON IS THIS MULTIPLE KERSTING I
THINK THAT THAT'S REFERRING TO
AREAS LIKE I'M WASHTENAW THERE
IS THE WASHTENAW SERVICE DRIVE
WHICH IS KIND OF LIKE GOES
THROUGH THE PARKING LOT IN
FRONT OF SOME OF THE BUSINESSES
AND WASHTENAW THAT'S KIND OF A
WEIRD SITUATION AND ANOTHER ONE
I KNOW THIS IS NOT ONE OF THE
ONE THINGS BUT BUT MIGHT BE IN
THE FUTURE IS IS A LONG PACKER
THAT ALSO HAS KIND OF A WEIRD
DOUBLE CURVED THING WITH ST
OPEN WHICH I THINK IS A CITY
STREET THAT'S KIND OF A PARKING
LOT AS WELL.
SO IS THAT WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT WITH WITH MULTIPLE
CURVES?
I THINK I THINK IT IS SO I JUST
WANTED TO CLARIFY ON THAT AND
WHAT KINDS OF CONSIDERATIONS
WOULD HAVE AROUND THOSE BECAUSE
I THINK IT'S KIND OF A UNIQUE
SITUATION.
THANK YOU.
IF YOU'D LIKE VICE CHAIR I CAN
ADDRESS THE CONCERNS THAT WERE
BROUGHT UP.
WE DO HAVE ONE MORE SPEAKER FOR
THE I'M SORRY VICTOR COE.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE BEST PICTURE
CATEGORY ACTUALLY CALLING FROM
LITTLE HONESTLY I'M KIND
OF ANNOYED THAT THIS IS BACK IN
FRONT OF YOU GUYS AS IT WAS
DISCUSSED AT LENGTH PRIOR TO
PASSAGE OF THE RECENT PURSE
WHICH I DIDN'T HEAR DISCUSSED
IN THE PRESENTATION IS THE
SECURITY ISSUE SECOND, THE CITY
DOESN'T USE EMINENT DOMAIN TO
INCREASE EASEMENTS.
AND THIRDLY, WE DON'T NEED THIS
SPACE IN OUR HIGH DENSITY
CORRIDORS.
THERE DOES SEEM TO BE A RISK
PERCEPTION FLOATING AROUND
THERE THAT INCREASING THESE
SETBACKS WORLDWIDE RIGHT AWAY
BUT THE OF ARE UNDER NO
OBLIGATION TO SEE THEIR LAND TO
THE CITY.
THEY COULD HAVE VEGETATION
DIRECTLY NEXT TO THAT SIDEWALK
LIKE A IT'S THEIR LAND AND THE
CITY IS NOT PREPARED TO ANNEX
IT USING LAW ANY PROPOSED
BUILDING THAT IS UNSAFE WILL BE
REJECTED BY STAFF UNDER SUCH
SAFETY AND NOBODY IS GOING TO
MAKE A ZERO PERCENT ZERO POINT
SETBACK BUILDING SAY THE
BARRIER.
WHAT IF THE CITY ON RUNWAY
FEELS CLAUSTROPHOBIC THAT A
CITY NEEDS TO PROVE THAT RIGHT
AWAY THE SETBACKS DIFFERENTLY
UNDER THE SAME ZONING
DESIGNATION AND STREET BY
STREET BASIS IS NEEDLESSLY
COMPLICATED.
NATURALLY THE STEP BACK IN LINE
AND I THINK SHOULD REMAIN IN
THE SINGULARS STANDARD.
AND WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A
STRUCTURE BECOMES NON
CONFORMING WHEN THE CITY
DECIDES TO MOVE FIRM?
ONE OF THE BEST PARTS OF THIS
DC ONE ZONING WAS THE
SIMPLICITY AND I THINK THAT
COMPLICATED IT IS A STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
THE SIMPLE ZONING I THINK IS
WHAT WILL ATTRACT MORE
DEVELOPERS TO OUR CITY TO MEET
THESE GOALS THAT AND FINALLY
THIS ONE HAS BEEN MORE OR LESS
DEVELOPED IN THE LAST YEAR
BECAUSE OF THIS DEBATE OVER THE
SETBACKS.
THESE DEVELOPMENTS HAVE ALREADY
BEEN DESIGNED FOR REVIEW
FINANCED AT A MUCH MORE
AFFORDABLE INTEREST RATE AND I
HOPE THE GUYS DEBATE IT GETS
REZONING PLYMOUTH COMMITMENT
WASHTENAW SO WE CAN ACTUALLY
MEET OUR DESPERATELY NEEDED
HOUSING BECAUSE THANKS.
THANK YOU.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS MAKES SELLING
TO ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS THAT
WAS BROUGHT UP ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT AT GRADE OR RAISED BY
SCHOOL FACILITIES WOULD BE
CONSIDERED ON SOME OF OUR
ARTERIAL CORRIDORS.
THE ANSWER IS YES.
THESE WOULD BE OUR TRANSFER
STATION GROUP IS VERY
INTERESTED IN THESE IN THE
FUTURE BUT THEY WOULD REQUIRE
SETTING ASIDE MONEY FOR AND
IN-DEPTH STUDY THE THE IT WOULD
IT WOULD REQUIRE MORE STUDY.
SO WE THINK THAT HAVING THE
SPACE AVAILABLE TO POTENTIALLY
ACCOMMODATE AND AT GRADE
FACILITY IS SUPPORTIVE OF THAT
BUT THERE ARE NO SPECIFIC PLANS
THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT ARE
RECOMMENDED IN THE MOVING
TOGETHER TOWARD VISION ZERO
PLAN BUT NOT IN SPECIFICS.
UH WITH THE THIRD COLUMN
MULTIPLE CURBS, MULTIPLE CURBS
WE DO RECOMMEND THAT THAT BE A
PART OF THE CONVERSATION
OF REZONING AND WASHTENAW.
I THINK THAT THE FUTURE OF THE
CITY OWNED RIGHT OF WAY AND
WHAT IS EFFECTIVELY A PARKING
LOT BUT IT'S CITY CITY RIGHT
OF WAY NEEDS TO BE DISCUSSED
THOROUGHLY DURING COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT IS ALSO ON
PACARD BUT NOT IN THE AREAS TO
OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT ARE
UNDER DISCUSSION TONIGHT IN
YOUR TRANSIT DESIGNATION MAP.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO READ THE MOTION AND
THEN WE'LL MOVE TO DISCUSSION.
SO THE PROPOSED MOTION IS THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE AMENDMENTS
TO CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION FIVE
POINT TEN POINT TWO AND FIVE
POINT ONE SEVENTY FIVE POINT
ONE SEVEN DASH FOUR TO
ESTABLISH TRANSIT CORRIDOR AS A
STREET TYPE DESIGNATION ON A
STREET TYPE DESIGNATION MAP
REFERENCED AND MADE A PART
OF THE CHAPTER IN SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE ZERO POINT TWO TO
PROVIDE REQUIRED FRONT SET
BACKS BASED ON STREET TYPE
DESIGNATION IN A TISSUE ON
DISTRICT SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
SEVENTY FIVE POINT ONE SEVEN
DASH FOUR AND TO CLARIFY
PARAMETERS WHERE SUCH A SET
BACK WOULD APPLY IN SECTION
FIVE POINT ONE SEVENTY FIVE
POINT ONE SEVEN DASH FOUR MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER DASH SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS WHEN IN
DISCUSSION IS THERE ANYBODY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER YOU SO MAYBE THE
FIRST QUESTION RELATIVE TO THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT NEGOTIATION
SIMILAR WE CAN'T NEGOTIATE A
BUILDING TO BE SET BACK FURTHER
WHEN IT'S APPROPRIATE.
CAN WE NEGOTIATE WHAT GETS IN
THE SET BACK IF WE REQUIRE SO
COULD THAT FRONT SET BACKSPACE
OF TWENTY FEET RELATIVE TO
WHATEVER'S ON THE PROPERTY LINE
BE FILLED WITH FULL VEGETATION
BLOCK AND PARTS THAT ARE
OBSTRUCTING?
COULD IT BE PUT TRANSFORMER'S
WHAT OTHER ELEMENTS WOULD BE
ALLOWED WITHIN SETBACK ZONES
THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE UNDER
NEGOTIATION INSTEAD
OF REQUIREMENT?
I'M GOING TO ASK PLANNER
DELIRIO TIMING TO HELP ANSWER
THIS QUESTION.
I NEEDED TO DO FIRST.
YES, THAT IN THIS AREA THERE
ARE SOME STRUCTURES THAT ARE
ALLOWED IN THE AREA AND ALL
DISTRICTS BUT THE THING IS THAT
EVERY STRUCTURE IS ALLOWED IS
PROBABLY MUCH MORE EASILY MOVED
IN THE FUTURE THAN AN ACTUAL
BUILDING.
THE THINGS THAT ARE ALLOWED IN
THE AREA ARE THINGS LIKE OPEN
AND UNROOFED TERRACES
COMPATIBLES AWNINGS, FLAGPOLES
RETAINING WALLS, FOUNTAINS,
SIDEWALKS, MAILBOXES, LIGHTS
AND FENCES, PARKING LOTS.
PARKING SPACES ARE ONLY IF THEY
ARE ALSO ENABLED IN SECTION BUT
THINGS LIKE SUBWAYS, CONTAINERS
OR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ARE NOT
PERMITTED F.A. THANK YOU.
MY NEXT QUESTION MAY BE ABOUT
THE EIGHT FOOT PLUS EIGHT FOOT
AS A CONTINUOUS ADDITIONAL
SPOT.
I ALWAYS MY UNDERSTANDING IS
SIMILAR TO ADA STANDARDS THAT
CAN BE NARROWED FOR DOORWAYS
DOWN TO THIRTY TWO INCHES
UNDERSTANDING THAT PINCH POINTS
BUT THE AVERAGE THOROUGHFARE IS
THERE SO HAS STAFF LOOKED AT
STAGGERED TREES PINCH POINTS,
THE CADENCE OF WHAT'S DESIRED
AND REQUESTED AND NEGOTIATED
WITH IN THESE AREAS RELATIVE TO
THAT OR ARE WE JUST CREATING
THE WIDEST AREA POSSIBLE FOR A
VISION THAT IS LACKING AT THIS
POINT THERE IS SUCH VARIATION
IN SOME KEY AREAS ACROSS
MULTIPLE CORRIDORS.
I TRIED TO SHOW THE BREADTH
OF THAT VARIABILITY IN THE LOT
LINES THAT TO DO THIS IN MORE
DEPTH AS OPPOSED TO WHAT'S
BEING PRESENTED TODAY WE THINK
WOULD REQUIRE A MUCH LONGER
CORRIDOR STUDY THAT WOULD LOOK
PARCEL BY PARCEL TO PRESENT
SOMETHING SIMILAR TO WHAT
YOU'RE SUGGESTING STAFF
UNDERSTANDING OF THE DESIRE FOR
EXPEDIENCY ON ADVANCING TUQAY
ONE AMENDMENTS AND REGULATIONS
DID NOT ALLOW FOR THAT GRANULAR
LEVEL OF REVIEW.
IT COULD OF COURSE BE DONE BUT
IT WOULD REQUIRE MORE TIME.
I THINK IT'S JUST THE CADENCE
OF I GUESS IS KIND OF MY REVIEW
AND UNDERSTANDING EIGHT FEET,
FOUR TREES AND EIGHT FEET FOR
PEDESTRIAN SPACE FOR THE
CONTINUANCE OF THE INSTEAD
EIGHT FEET FOR PEDESTRIAN SPACE
AND THEN TREES INCREMENTALLY
PINCHING MAYBE THAT DOWN TO SIX
FEET OR FIVE FEET AT POINTS
WHEN THOSE TREES ARE PLANTED
WITH A PASSABLE
GRATE ON TOP
OF THOSE ROOTS ALLOW YOU TO
NARROW THAT AND MAINTAIN A MORE
STREET FRONT CORRIDOR.
SO THAT'S WHERE I FEEL LIKE
WE'RE PUSHING AS WIDE AS
POSSIBLE TO GIVE US THE SPACE
WHEN WE COULD BE STRATEGICALLY
THINKING IN A COMPACT WAY TO
STILL GET SOME OF THOSE THINGS
AND WE'RE PUSHING THINGS RATHER
THAN BEING NIMBLE AND FLEXIBLE.
SO I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT THE
WIDTH IN THAT REGARD DOOR
SWINGS.
SO LET ME KIND OF GO THROUGH
ALL OF MY CONCERNS.
YES, WE TO HAVE PETITIONERS DO
THE RIGHT THING IF WE GIVE THIS
RIGHT AWAY WE STILL HAVE TO
HAVE THEM DO THE RIGHT THING
WITHIN THAT SPACE THAT WE'VE
NOW REQUIRED THEM TO HOLD
SETBACKS FOR THE WHOLE BUILDING
PHASE.
SO EVEN IF WE HAD THEM PROCESS
THE POTENTIAL I GUESS I CAN
TALK ABOUT A LITTLE BIT MORE
NOW SOUTHTOWN THE GROUND FLOOR
RECESSES AND THEN THE UPPER
FLOORS EXTEND OUT AND SO GIVES
YOU A LOT MORE GROUND FLOOR WET
BUT IT ACTUALLY ENABLES SOME
MORE SQUARE FOOTAGE ABOVE.
BUT THAT OPPORTUNITY IS
ELIMINATED BY THIS SET BACK.
THAT LINE GOES TO THIS GUY LIKE
GOES TO THE ATMOSPHERE.
RIGHT.
ONCE WE DRAW THAT LINE THERE IS
NO OPPORTUNITY TO STAGGER
THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT THE EXTENSION IS A SPECIFIC
POINT THAT IS REVIEWED AND
NEGOTIATED.
WE'RE TALKING WITH TRAFFIC
IMPACT STUDY ABOUT THAT AND
TRAFFIC IMPACTS.
SO YOU SHOULD HAVE MORE WEIGHT
IN NOT JUST RECOMMENDATION'S
BUT REQUIREMENTS IN OUR FLIGHT
PLAN.
SO I FEEL LIKE WE CAN TACKLE
THAT WITHIN THAT REQUIREMENT
AND FRANKLY WE HAVE FIVE MAIN
ROADS AND WE CAN DO STUFF.
WE CAN PUT CURBS, HAVE WATER
RUN UNDER THEM.
WE CAN CONSOLIDATE THIS.
I'M ON NORTH MAIN.
IT'S NARROWER THAN WHAT STADIUM
AND WE'VE GOT TRUCKS PULLING IN
AND WE DON'T HAVE LIGHTS AND
THAT'S THE RISK IS WE HAVE A
LOT OF LIGHTS AND TIMING THERE
AND I THINK CREATING MORE
RESISTANCE TO AN AREA THAT WE
WANT TO ENABLE MORE PROJECTS TO
HAPPEN DOESN'T GIVE THE
FLEXIBILITY AND I'M NOT
INTERESTED IN DEATH BY A
THOUSAND CUTS BY ZONI LIKE LIKE
WE TALK ABOUT AT LEAST IT'S ON
OUR AGENDA TO ENZO AND THIS
JUST FEELS LIKE EXTRA ZONING.
I DON'T HAVE THE CONCERNS.
THIS IS JUST ANOTHER ADD
ANOTHER RESTRICTION CUTTING
BACK THE OPPORTUNITY TO DO
SOMETHING THAT STREETSCAPE
MAKING IT WIDER WHETHER IT'S IN
THE SUBWAY, GOT A CAR IN IT
LIKE AT TWENTY FEET SO IT'S
LIKE I'M STILL NOT CONVINCED
AND I SEE THE THROW STAFF
REPORT THAT'S REALLY TRYING TO
MAKE AN ARGUMENT THAT I
ACTUALLY DON'T THINK IS THERE
AND ALL OF THAT TIME SHOULD BE
WORKING ON PLIMOTH ROAD AND SO
IT'S A LOT OF TIME AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO THAT AMOUNT OF TIME
MOVING EFFORTS FORWARD TO ALLOW
MORE HOUSING AND MORE QUARTERS
IN OUR CITY TO THE SPECIFIC
POINT ABOUT SETBACKS I WAS
GOING TO ASK PLANER TO TO I'M
SORRY TO RECESSIVE.
DID YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON
THAT, ALEXIS
?
I DON'T KNOW IF I NEED TO WEIGH
IN ON THE COMMENT.
I CAN I CAN CLARIFY THAT.
YES, THE SET BACK IS FOR THE
FALL WITHIN THE BUILDING AND
THAT IT WOULD NOT IN ITS
CURRENT FORM IT WOULD NOT COUNT
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH IF THE
FIRST FLOOR MAT THE FRONT STEP
BACK BUT NOT UPPER STOREYS IT
CAN BE REWORDED TO MAKE THAT
MORE EXPLICIT AND MAKE THAT
ENABLED AND ALLOWED.
BUT IT'S NOT THE WAY IT'S
CURRENTLY GOOGLE'S
.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE YOU'D
LIKE TO COMMENT OR HAVE
QUESTIONS?
YEAH, SO I HAD A QUESTION ABOUT
THE COMPARISON TO OTHER
POLICIES AND TECHNICAL GUIDANCE
THAT ALIGNED THE CITY'S
RECOMMENDATIONS.
IT SEEMED TO BE COMPARING THEM
TO URBAN DOWNTOWN AREA
RECOMMENDATIONS AND I NOTICED
THE OTHER BEST PRACTICES HAVE
SPECIFIC TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSIT ZONING
GUIDANCE AND INCLUDING BACK TO
ACTUALLY RECOMMENDS AND I THINK
WE KIND OF WENT OVER SAID
NAUSEUM AND THE LAST
CONVERSATION SO APOLOGIZING IS
KIND OF REPEATING WHAT OTHERS
HAVE SAID.
BUT I'M JUST KIND OF CURIOUS IF
THE GUIDANCE FOR SETTING
IGNORING MINIMUMS AND JUST
SETTING MAXIMUM SETBACKS HAS
BEEN CONSIDERED AND IF IF THERE
IS ANY DISTINCTION BETWEEN
SETBACKS SORRY THE RIGHT AWAY
IN THE IN AN URBAN AREA VERSUS
THE TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND IF
THERE'S BEEN ANY EXPLORATION
OF THAT SO THERE ARE QUITE A
FEW RANGES THAT ARE PRESENTED
AS AN ATTACHMENT THERE'S A
TABLE TO UNCURVED A BUILDING
SPACE ALLOCATION COMPARISON
THAT DOES SHOW WHAT THE RANGE
IS FOR A VARIETY OF OTHER
CITIES.
MOST OF THE EXAMPLES UNLESS YOU
HAVE CITIES WITH VERY ROBUST
GUIDELINES THAT COVER A VERY
WIDE RANGE OF DIFFERENT
SCENARIOS IN STREET TYPOLOGIES,
THEY DO JUST SHOW WHAT THEY
WOULD LIKE FOR THEIR DOWNTOWN,
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO ARGUE FOR
FROM FROM THAT PERSPECTIVE IS
THAT DOWNTOWN WE SHOULD BE
MATCHING OR EXCEEDING WHAT IS
IN DOWNTOWNS TO BUFFER FROM THE
ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF TRAFFIC, THE
NUMBER OF LANES THE JUST
ROADWAY WIDTH AND VOLUME THAT
IS ON A LOT OF THESE ARTERIAL
MET.
THERE WEREN'T A LOT OF GREAT
EXAMPLES FOR YOU'RE TRYING TO
TRANSFORM AN URBAN INFILL
ARTERIAL WHAT SHOULD YOUR WITH
BE?
SO WE HAD TO DRAW FROM A
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT GUIDES IN
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
THE DRAFT DESIGN GUIDELINES
LOOKING AT IN SOME CASES JUST
TWO LANE ROADS IS RECOMMENDING
19 FEET FROM BACK OF CURB TO
BUILDING PHASE TO ACCOMMODATE
THE COMFORTABLE PEDESTRIAN
REALM.
SO IN TERMS OF THE COMPARISON
TO DOWNTOWNS, I THINK DOWNTOWNS
IN SOME CASES BENEFIT FROM A
LESS STRESSFUL STREET NETWORK
AND MATCHING OR EXCEEDING SOME
OF THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS SEEMED
APPROPRIATE FOR THE MATERIALS
THAT ARE UNDER CONSIDERATION
FOR ONE
.
>> SO I DO JUST WANT TO POINT
OUT THAT IT'S OFTEN KIND
OF DESIGNING FOR FORGIVENESS IS
WHAT THIS IS STARTING TO SOUND
LIKE AND DESIGNING ROADS TO BE
FORGIVING TO FAST SPEEDS JUST
ENCOURAGES THE STATUS QUO
OF HIGHER SPEEDS AND SO I'M
GOING HAVE TO REALLY STRONGLY
PUSH BACK ON THAT IDEA.
YOU KNOW, LIKE COMMISSIONER
SILVER MENTIONED THE SUBWAY I
MEAN THERE'S TWENTY EIGHT FEET
BETWEEN THE ROAD AND THAT
THERE'S A CONCRETE YOU KNOW,
CURB THERE WAS BUSHES AND STUFF
IN THE FRONT AND THEY STILL HAD
THE BUILDING BECAUSE THEY WERE
JUST DRIVING TOO FAST AND THE
MORE YOU MAKE ROADS FORGIVING
FOR FAST DRIVERS AND YOU START
INCORPORATING THAT INTO YOUR
PLANNING, THE MORE YOU'RE JUST
REBUILDING THE STATUS QUO,
YOU'RE JUST CREATING MORE SPACE
FOR DRIVERS TO GO QUICKLY
THROUGH.
YOU'RE CREATING MORE OF A
SEPARATION BETWEEN PEOPLE WHO
ARE USING THE ROAD.
YOU'RE MAKING SPACES WIDER,
LONGER DISTANCES FOR
PEDESTRIANS TO HAVE TO GO AND I
THINK THAT'S A HUGE MISTAKE TO
NOT FACTOR IN THE THE POWER
THAT DESIGN HAS WHEN WE CAN'T
REALLY WE DON'T HAVE MANY OTHER
MECHANISMS FOR CONTROLLING
SPEED OTHER THAN PERCEPTION AND
DRIVER PSYCHOLOGY OF LIKE HOW
THEY PERCEIVE THE ROAD AND HOW
SAFE IT IS TO DRIVE AT WHAT
SPEEDS PUTTING BUILDINGS UP TO
THE ROAD IS.
YOU KNOW SO FOR EXAMPLE, I JUST
PULLED UP DENVER'S AND A LOT
OF CITIES DO HAVE SPECIFIC
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
OVERLAYS.
THERE'S TRANSIT ZONING GUIDANCE
FOR EXAMPLE, DENVER RECOMMENDS
SPECIFICALLY BUILDINGS UP TO
THE SIDEWALK ZERO BACK.
I ACTUALLY HAVE A WHOLE CHART
SO I WON'T DRONE ON BUT YEAH, I
JUST I REALLY WANT TO CAUTIOUS
AS AGAINST THIS KIND
OF CREATING AND REINFORCE THE
STATUS QUO AND SPECULATING
BASED ON WHAT THE CURRENT
CONDITIONS ARE AND PUTTING EVEN
MORE I GUESS CENTRAL CENTERING
VEHICLES UM SORRY IT WAS POORLY
STATED BUT YEAH THE DENVER
TRANSIT ORIENTED PLAN IS ONE
WITH SHALLOW SETBACKS
RECOMMENDED CREATING WALKABLE
AND VIABLE COMMUNITIES GUIDANCE
FROM THE MICHIGAN REDEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY ZONING PRACTICE THEY
SAY ZERO FOR EXAMPLE.
SORRY I'M IN A BAR.
EVERYONE WAS JUST READING THIS
REAL QUICK RATIONALE ZERO FOOT
BILL TO LINE OR BUILD TWO RANGE
WITH A MAXIMUM FRONT SET BACK.
OUR STRATEGY IS TO ENSURE THAT
BUILDINGS ARE CONSTRUCTED NEAR
AND ACCESSIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC
REALM ZERO FOOT BUILD TO LINES
CAN HELP ENSURE A UNIFORM
FACADE CONTINUED IN DOWNTOWN
DISTRICTS AND COMMUNITIES
ALLOWING A RANGE.
SO THERE'S THERE IS QUITE A BIT
OF SUPPORT AND CAN BUILD TWO
RANGES WHICH IS MAXIMUM SET
BACKS WOULD ALLOW DEVELOPERS TO
BUILD UP THE FRONT OF THE
PROPERTY LINE.
IT WOULD ALSO YES TO THE BACK
OF THAT LINE THAT'S NOT
RELEVANT BUT ALL I'M GETTING IS
THERE IS A LOT OF RESEARCH AND
A LOT OF SUPPORT OUT THERE ON
THESE TRANSIT CORRIDORS TO
MINIMUM SET BACKS.
THIS DOES FEEL LIKE JUST OVER
ZONING AND I FEEL REALLY
STRONGLY ABOUT THIS SO THAT'S
ALL SING FOR JUMPING AROUND
THERE CONDITIONALS.
I THINK THAT
THE MOVEMENT AND
ALL OF THE RESEARCH THAT WAS
JUST DISCUSSED ABOUT MOVING
THINGS CLOSER TO THE STREET AND
HAVING MAKING FOR A GOOD
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE IS REALLY
IMPORTANT.
UM, I THINK WHAT'S CHALLENGING
IS THAT THOSE BUILD EVEN IN THE
ZERO BUILD TWO LINES ARE NOT
CONSISTENT AND SO THE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE WITH THE
CURB JUST BECAUSE OF THIS LIKE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WHERE THE
FRONT FLAT LINE IS AND WHERE
THE CURVE IS.
AND SO I THINK THAT THAT
EXPERIENCE THAT THAT'S HOW I
THINK PEDESTRIANS FEEL THE
STREET THEY DON'T KNOW LIKE
NOBODY KNOWS WHERE THE PROPERTY
LINE ACTUALLY IS.
>> I DON'T THINK WE'RE IN A
POSITION WHERE WE CAN MOVE
ENTIRELY TOWARDS WE DON'T KNOW
I THINK WE HAVE HIGHER
PRIORITIES THAN CHANGING ALL
OF OUR FRONT SET BACKS TO BE
MEASURED FROM THE CURB.
BUT I I THINK THAT THAT
EXPERIENCE THAT REALLY TALKS
ABOUT LIKE HOW CLOSE THINGS ARE
AND BEING CONSISTENT WITH WHERE
THE EDGE OF THAT ROAD IS, I
THINK THAT THAT MAKES MORE
SENSE FROM A PLANNING
PERSPECTIVE.
I TOTALLY HEAR PEOPLE ARE
SAYING AND I THINK I COULD SEE
ARGUMENTS FOR LIKE MAYBE NOT
BEING TWENTY FEET LIKE WHERE
THERE ACTUALLY REALLY IS THIS
NARROW RIGHT OF EXISTING VERY
NARROW RIGHT OF WAY A
ALLOWING
FOR THINGS TO FOR FOR SOME
OF THOSE ZONES WHETHER IT'S A
PEDESTRIAN ZONE OR THE
AMENITIES OWNER THE TREE ET I
DON'T KNOW IF THE TREE AND THE
AMENITIES ARE TOGETHER FOR
THOSE TO NARROW I THINK MAYBE
LIKE BOTH 20 AND 40 COULD COME
DOWN A LITTLE BIT.
I BUT I DON'T NECESSARILY TAKE
THIS AS OVERREGULATION IN THIS
SITUATION.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS NOT HAVE
EVERYTHING BE IN NEGOTIATION
WITH THE DEVELOPER, HAVE
SOMEBODY UNDERSTAND WHEN
THEY'RE READING OUR ORDINANCE
WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO LIKE,
WHAT RULES THEY'RE BEING HELD
TO RATHER THAN HAVE STAFF
TRYING TO TWIST THEIR ARMS.
I'M LIKE WELL THIS IS WHAT WE
THINK PLANNING COMMISSION IS
GOING TO DO.
I THINK THAT THAT THIS IS AN
AREA WHERE IN THOSE SITUATIONS
WHERE IT REALLY IS A VERY, VERY
UM NARROW SPACE BETWEEN THE
CURB AND THE PROPERTY LINE, I
THINK THAT THOSE ARE PLACES
WHERE GIVEN OUR HOW WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS RIGHT NOW I
DON'T KNOW IF I WERE STAFF HOW
I WOULD TALK TO A DEVELOPER,
WHAT THOSE CONVERSATIONS ARE
ACTUALLY GOING TO LOOK LIKE
ABOUT HOW DIFFERENT YOU KNOW
ABOUT WHAT THEY COULD EXPECT
WHEN THEY GET THEIR PROJECT ALL
THE WAY TO PLANNING COMMISSION
IN TERMS OF WHAT THAT THAT HOW
WE'RE GOING TO REACT AND I HOPE
THAT WE COULD COME UP WITH
SOMETHING NOW SO THAT WE COULD
TAKE SOME OF THAT GUESSWORK
AWAY FROM THEM.
SO I LIKE THIS APPROACH.
I FEEL LIKE THIS IS THE MIDDLE
GROUND APPROACH OF HAVING A
CURVE OF HAVING ACKNOWLEDGING
THAT WE DO HAVE SUPERNATURAL I
THINK ON OK RIGHTS OF WAY OR
KIND OF THAT SPACE AGAIN I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S THE RIGHT
ONE THAT I'M CALLING IT BETWEEN
THE CURB AND THE FRONT FRONT
LINE IN SOME PLACES AND THAT I
THINK WE NEED TO SET THAT
TRANSIT CORRIDOR MINIMUM TO BE
SOMETHING THAT LIKE WE THAT
EVERYBODY FEELS COMFORTABLE
WITH IS AT LEAST A MINIMUM THAT
WE CAN GO FOR BECAUSE THAT'S I
LIKE THE IDEA ACTUALLY
OF HAVING THIS MAXIMUM HERE TOO
BECAUSE WE HAVE LOT AS I THINK
THE THE THE PRESENTATION POINT
OUT WE HAVE LOTS OF AREAS WHERE
IT'S REALLY BIG.
IT'S WAY BIGGER THAN WHAT WE
WANT AND SO FORCING THEM TO NOT
GO ALL THE WAY UP TO WHAT THEY
CURRENTLY HAVE PLUS FIFTEEN I I
REALLY APPRECIATE THAT BUT I, I
THINK IT IS ACTUALLY BETTER FOR
THE DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY AND
NOT HINDERING DEVELOPMENT IF WE
CAN AGREE NOW ON WHAT RULES
WE'RE GOING TO HOLD EVERYBODY
TO RATHER THAN THIS HAVING
BEING A ONE OFF NEGOTIATION AND
PEOPLE ARE LIKE WELL WHAT'S
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN WHEN IT
GETS TO PLANNING COMMISSION?
I WOULD RATHER HAVE IT BE VERY
CLEAR IN OUR ORDINANCE.
SO AGAIN I'M OPEN TO WHAT THOSE
NUMBERS ARE BUT THAT I I THINK
IT I'M NOT COMFORTABLE WITH
PEOPLE HAVING WITH THE CURRENT
SITUATION IN SOME PARTS OF THE
CORRIDOR WHERE IT'S
UNCOMFORTABLE WALK IT'S NOT
COMFORTABLE TO WALK ON NORTH
MAIN.
IT'S NOT A GOOD EXPERIENCE AND
I THINK THAT I I ALSO THINK
THAT THAT IS TRUE FOR PARTS
OF UM FOR PARTS OF STADIUM AND
WHILE THERE'S LOTS OF THINGS
THAT I THINK WE OUGHT TO DO TO
SLOW TRAFFIC, I ALSO KNOW THAT
THOSE ARE THE EDGES OF THE CITY
LIKE THERE THERE WHERE WE HAVE
WE HAVE UM OUR OUR TRANSIT
RUNNING ANYWAY BECAUSE THIS IS
THESE THESE ARE OUR MATERIALS
OR WHATEVER THE RIGHT ROAD IS.
SO I I FEEL LIKE I LIKE THAT
THIS IS A MIDDLE OF THE ROAD
SOLUTION NOW AND BUT I'M I'M
OPEN TO THINKING ABOUT WHETHER
20 AND 40 ARE THE RIGHT NUMBERS
.
COMMISSIONER.
I JUST I HAVE A QUESTION AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S AN ANSWER
TO MY QUESTION BUT I'M CURIOUS
AS TO ON WHAT KIND OF ROAD
WOULD DRIVERS BE LIKELY TO
DRIVE FASTER AND WOULD IT BE A
MULTI LANE ARTERIAL WHERE
BUILDINGS ARE BUILT UP TO THE
SIDEWALK OR A MULTI LANE
ARTERIAL OR WHERE AN AMENITY
ZONE WITH MATURE TREES IN IT OR
SOON TO BE MATURE TREES I DON'T
KNOW SEPARATES THE SIDEWALK
FROM THE MULTI LANE ARTERIAL.
AS FAR AS A TECHNICAL ANSWER TO
THAT, I'M SURE THAT THERE IS AN
I.T. GUIDE SOMEWHERE THAT SAYS
THAT THE DIFFERENCE IN
PERCEIVED WIDTH THAT AFFECTS
TRAVEL SPEED IS SEARCH FOR
BUILDINGS VERSUS YOU KNOW, X
FOR TREES.
I JUST DO KNOW THAT TREES ARE
ONE OF THOSE THINGS THAT CAN
REDUCE PERCEIVED WIDTH.
SO IF YOU IMAGINE IF YOU FAN
10, 15, 20 FEET WIDE OR OUT
BEFORE
I MEAN I WOULD THINK
THAT TREES WOULD PROVIDE THAT
WALL IF THEY WERE AGAIN HEALTHY
LARGE VARIETIES MATURE
SO I I
AM IN SUPPORT OF THESE CHANGES
BECAUSE I WAS ONE OF THE PEOPLE
WHO WAS CONCERNED UNCANCEL WITH
THE PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE
OF WALKABILITY AND AGAIN, I'M
NOT GOING TO SIT HERE AND ARGUE
FOR A LARGER MINIMUM THAN 20
BUT I DID NOTICE THAT IF TREES
NEED EIGHT TO 10 FEET AND
PEDESTRIANS NEED EIGHT FEET,
THEN WE'RE IF WE'RE AT 20 WE'RE
REALLY NOT LEAVING ROOM FOR
THAT LITTLE BIT OF SPACE THAT'S
RIGHT UP AGAINST THE BUILDING.
>> FOUR DOOR SWINGS AND
WHATEVER THOSE THINGS ARE
CALLED WHERE THEY PUT THEIR
MENU IN LIKE A FRONTAGE ZONE IS
ONE WAY TO REFER TO IT.
YEAH, SO YOU KNOW, I'M NOT
GOING TO ARGUE FOR BIGGER THAN
20 BUT I'M SAYING THAT I THINK
20 DOES SEEM LIKE A REASONABLE
MINIMUM TO ME.
IF YOU WANT TO PROVIDE ALL THE
THINGS YOU SHOWED US IN THE
PORTLAND DESIGN, THE PORTLAND
DESIGN ACTUALLY HAS TOO SMALL
OF AN IMMUNITY ZONE FOR TREES.
>> THE ONE IN THE STAFF REPORT
I THINK WAS FROM EUGENE OR WAS
I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST TO
ILLUSTRATE THE THE O THE
VARIOUS THINGS.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THE VARIOUS LANES OF THE
SIDEWALKS ARE SO BUT I DON'T
THINK THIS DISCUSSION IS
FINISHED AND I DON'T YOU KNOW,
I'M OBVIOUSLY OPEN TO HEARING
MORE VIEWS BUT YEAH ANYWAY SO I
THINK COMMISSIONER SERVING AS
AN EXCELLENT CLERK AND THEN
WHETHER IT'S A QUESTION FOR
STAFF OUR POLICY AS STANDS NOW
IT'S WRITTEN LIKE YOU CAN BUILD
A PROPERTY ON THE IDEA
OF NEGOTIATING IS MORE A HABIT
BUILT MAYBE A PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WITH WITH STAFF
MORE THAN IT IS A PROTOCOL IF
IT CHECKS THE BOXES IT SHOULD
BE PASSED.
WE DON'T HAVE A POLICY ON THE
BOOKS THAT WE NEED TO FIX
BECAUSE WE'RE ALLOWING
NEGOTIATION.
WE'RE CHOOSING TO NEGOTIATE AND
STALL OUT PROJECTS AND
FRUSTRATE DEVELOPERS.
THEY LIKE THE POLICY ON THE
BOOKS WORKS RELATIVE TO IF THEY
DO WHAT'S HOW IT'S WRITTEN IT
SHOULD BE PASSED.
WELL, I THINK THERE'S SOMETHING
TO BE SAID FOR OUR NON UDC
REGULATIONS THAT WOULD REQUIRE
PROBABLY ADA REGULATIONS
SIDEWALK BUT AGAIN WE'RE
LOOKING AT R.M. SO THERE ARE
THINGS BEYOND JUST WHAT YOU MAY
SEE IN THE UDC
THAT ARE NOT
NEGOTIATED BUT RATHER
PRESCRIBED AND ARE IN THE CITY
CITY CODE IN TERMS
OF SITUATIONS THAT AREN'T
OPTIMAL WHEN WE'RE BALANCING SO
MANY DIFFERENT POLICY
DOCUMENTS.
SOME ARE ADOPTED, SOME AREN'T A
TWO ZERO FOR EXAMPLE, THERE ARE
DIFFERENT THINGS THAT STAFF
TAKE INTO ACCOUNT.
I DON'T NECESSARILY THINK IT'S
A BAD HABIT FOR US TO TRY TO
BALANCE ALL OF THOSE THINGS,
PRESENT THEM TO WHAT CAN
SOMETIMES BE A COMPLEX PLAN AND
TRY TO TEASE OUT WHAT IS THE
BEST OUTCOME IN TERMS OF DOES
THERE NEED TO BE AS MUCH
NEGOTIATION AS THERE PERHAPS IS
CERTAIN PROJECTS?
NO, I THINK THERE COULD BE
COULD BE LESS IN MANY
SITUATIONS AND HOPEFULLY, YOU
KNOW, SOME VERSION OF WHATEVER
IS PASSED TONIGHT WOULD TO
COMMISSIONER MILLER'S POINT
REDUCE SOME OF THAT BACK AND
FORTH TO BE CLEAR.
BUT AS IT'S WRITTEN ON THE ADC
AND ALONG WITH OUR OTHER CODES
RELATIVE TO ADA BUILDING
CODE OBSTRUCTIONS AND SWINGS,
WE HAVE CODES THAT ARE GOING TO
MEET A LOT OF THE CONCERNS IN A
LOT OF DIFFERENT PLACES.
SO AS THE PROJECT GOES THROUGH
IT'S GOING TO MEET THE
CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS.
IT'S GOING TO MEET OUR CITY
REQUIREMENTS AND THE UDC IS ONE
OF THOSE PLACES THAT WE'RE
GOING TO CHECK THINGS OFF.
I GUESS WHAT GO AHEAD.
I WOULD JUMP IN, MR. SOLVAY
THAT YES.
YOUR YOUR YOU'RE RIGHT THAT IF
YOU MEET THE MAN STANDARD YOU
SHOULD BE APPROVED.
THERE SHOULD BE NO NEGOTIATION
SO FORTH.
BUT I WILL POINT OUT THAT
OUTSIDE OF ASIDE FROM THE
DOWNTOWN WHICH HAS HISTORICALLY
HAD A ZERO BACK, IT ALSO HAS
SOME OF THE WIDEST SIDEWALKS
RELATIVE TO THE WIDTH OF THE
ROAD IN TOWN.
BUT OUTSIDE OF THE DOWNTOWN
MOST OF OUR ZONING DISTRICTS
NEVER HAVE ADDRESSED BEFORE
ZERO SETBACKS IN OUR DISTRICTS
THE MANY YEARS AGO THE THREE
DISTRICTS STARTED WITH A
MINIMUM 40 SET BACK AND OTHER
DISTRICTS HAD SIMILAR AND WE
NEVER HAD TO HAVE HAD
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WHAT IS THE
SHALLOWEST SETBACK THAT WE CAN
ACQUIRE AND STILL GET ALL THE
AMENITIES STILL HAVE ROOM FOR
UTILITIES STILL FOR THE
SIDEWALKS UP UNTIL RECENTLY
BEFORE IT WAS TO SEE ONE IN
THIS WESTERN CORRIDOR THE C
THREE HAD A MINIMUM OF TEN FEET
AND A MAXIMUM OF TWENTY FIVE
FEET BUT A LOT OF IT WAS BUILT
TO THAT 40 FOOT MINIMUM
STANDARD.
SO IN HERE YOU'RE RIGHT IN THAT
IF THAT SETBACK IS THERE SHOULD
BE NO MORE YOU MEAN IT YOU
SHOULD BE GOOD TO GO BUT WE ARE
CHANGING THE RULES CONTINUOUSLY
NOW WE ARE REDUCING ALL THE
SETBACKS AND WE ARE BRINGING
EVERYTHING FORWARD BUT WE WHAT
WE DON'T HAVE THEN THE
CORRESPONDING POLICY THAT SAYS
OH AND WE'VE ALSO INVESTED IN A
RIGHT OF WAYS TO PROVIDE A
UNIFORM DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
CURVE AND THE PROPERTY LINES
AND SO FORTH.
SO THAT'S WHY THIS ISSUE IS
COMING TO A HEAD.
I THINK IT IS NOT IT YOU JUST
CAN'T SAY ANYMORE.
WELL WE'RE GOING TO REQUIRE A
ZERO STEP BACK AND THEY NEED IT
AND THERE'S NO OTHER
CONSIDERATIONS WHATSOEVER
BECAUSE I'M NOT SURE IF THE
ZERO IS THAT THAT TOOK INTO
ACCOUNT OR WHAT WE ARE SAYING
IS OUR ZERO SET BACK BEFORE I
WENT TO SEE ONE DID NOT TAKE
INTO ACCOUNT WHAT IS THE
DIMENSION BETWEEN THE BACK
OF THE CURVE AND THE PROPERTY
LINE WE JUST SORT OF ASSUMED IT
WAS VERY GENEROUS LIKE DOWNTOWN
AND NOW THAT WE HAVE EXAMINED
IT BLOCK BY BLOCK WE'RE SEEING
IT'S NOT SOME OF THESE WORDS
ARE NOT ENOUGH TO TO PROVIDE WE
SHOULD BE PUSHING SETBACKS BACK
,COMMISSIONER SO THEY CAN I
JUST IF I COULD CLARIFY SO
YOU'RE YOU'RE STARTING POSITION
HERE IS THAT IF THE IF THE
SETBACK IS ZERO OR FIFTEEN WE
HAVE TO WE HAVE TO PROVE IT IF
IT'S ZERO WE HAVE TO PROVE IS
FIFTEEN BUT IT CAN'T BE ZERO IF
THAT THERE'S A FRONT DOOR THERE
AND IT HAS TO SWING AND IT
CAN'T SWING ON THE SIDEWALK.
SO IN THAT CASE WHAT IT MEANS
IS THAT THAT CODE MIGHT REQUIRE
THAT DOOR TO BE SET BACK FOUR
FEET WHATEVER THAT DIMENSION IS
.
AND THEN IN SOME CASES THAT
MEANS THAT YOU'VE ACCOMMODATED
THAT B YOU STILL HAVE A
DIMENSION OF SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
ZERO FIVE SIX UP TO FORTY FEET
AND YOUR POSITION THAT YOU'RE
ADVOCATING FOR IS THAT'S GOOD
ENOUGH.
WE HAVE IF THAT BUILDING
ADDRESSES THE DOOR
SATISFACTORILY BECAUSE WE HAVE
A CODE IN POSITION IT SAYS YOU
CAN'T SWING OUT ON THE
SIDEWALK.
I DON'T CARE ABOUT THE REST
OF THAT BUILDING IN THE NARROW
SIDEWALK AT THAT CIRCUMSTANCE.
SO I THINK I JUST WANT TO I
THINK THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT THE ANSWER
STAFF IS GIVING YOU.
BUT I THINK THAT IS STILL
CONTRARY TO WHAT COUNCIL'S
ASKED YOU TO DO IS TO SAY THAT
YES, THAT SOLVES THE DOOR SWING
BUT IT DOESN'T SOLVE A BUILDING
THAT NARROWS THAT SIDEWALK
BETWEEN FOUR TO FIVE, SIX OR
WHATEVER FEET.
AND SO I THINK THE ANSWER IS
YES, WE HAVE OTHER CODES THAT'S
GOING TO ADDRESS THAT NOT GREAT
GUN SAFE SITUATIONS THAT STILL
DOESN'T SOLVE THE FACT THAT WE
CANNOT PUT A TREE IN A BUS STOP
AND INADEQUATE PEDESTRIAN
SIDEWALK IN THAT PLACE.
BUT IT ALSO IT DOESN'T SOLVE
THAT.
WE STILL CAN'T REQUIRE THAT WE
STILL COULD HAVE THE SET BACK
WITH A FENCE AND A PRIVATE
TERRACE UP TO THAT FIVE FOOT
AND FORCE EVERYONE INTO A PINCH
ZONE.
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT THERE'S MORE POTENTIAL IN
THE FUTURE.
THERE'S POSSIBILITY IF WE WANT
TO GIVE UP ON THE POSSIBILITY
OF FIXING THAT, THEN I DON'T
THINK THAT THIS SHOULD BE DONE
IF WE DON'T CARE ABOUT THAT
POSSIBILITY AND LET'S BE HONEST
THAT POSSIBILITY IS EXPENSIVE
AND LONG AND SO IF YOU DON'T
CARE ABOUT THAT, I DON'T YOU
WOULDN'T SUPPORT THAT.
BUT IF WE DO CARE ABOUT THE
FLEXIBILITY FOR HAVING THE
ABILITY THIS KIND OF APPROACH
IS GOING TO CREATE THE ABILITY
TO MAKE CAPITAL INVESTMENTS ARE
IMPROVEMENTS THERE.
AND I WOULD SAY THAT THE
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS WITHIN THAT
20 FOOT VERSUS THE CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS ARE MOVING THAT
CURVE OR MAKING IMPROVEMENTS
OF A SECOND CURVE WITHIN A FIVE
LANE ROAD TO SLOW IT DOWN,
ENCOURAGE MORE MULTIMODAL IS A
BETTER LONG TERM VISION AND
INVESTMENT THAN SEPARATING
PLACES.
I MEAN THERE TWENTY SIXTY US
STADIUM WAS SUPPOSED TO HAVE A
PUBLIC HEARING TOMORROW AS
OPPOSED SO IT'S LIKE HEY IT'S
CONDITIONS WITH THE PUBLIC
HEARING ARE GETTING FEEDBACK.
THE INTENSITY OF SOME OF THESE
PROJECTS ARE GOING TO HAVE A
PUBLIC HEARING AND CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETINGS THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO HEAR GET THAT
FEEDBACK REPORT AND UNDERSTAND
LIKE I FEEL LIKE THERE'S SO
MANY KIND OF PIECES ALONG THIS
PROJECT RELATIVE TO HOW ARE WE
GOING TO ACCUMULATE THESE
THINGS TO TURN INTO SOMETHING
LIKE CORRIGIN IS AT ZERO FEET
SET BACK BY WE'RE GOING TO GET
NEW NONCONFORMITY OUT OF THIS
AND WE HAVE TO EITHER ENCOURAGE
OR DO THAT IN THE LONG TERM
THAT THEY NEVER GETS
REDEVELOPED.
IT WILL ALWAYS BE A NAIL HOUSE
THAT OBSTRUCTS ANY FUTURE
VISION INSTEAD OF SAYING THAT
CURVE AND EVERYTHING WITH
BETWEEN THOSE CURVES IS WHERE
WE CAN IMPROVE AND WE NEED TO
PUT PRESSURE ON THE CITY TO SAY
THIS IS A PROBLEM YOU'VE
CREATED .
THIS IS A SAFETY ISSUE YOU'VE
CREATED AND THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE SHOULD SOLVE AND THIS
IS WHERE WE SHOULD PUT OUR
CAPITAL EFFORT INSTEAD
OF PUTTING IN A PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT AND HOPING TO
NEGOTIATE IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
AND I THINK THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT COMES TO THE TABLE.
YOU KNOW, WE KNOW FROM A STATE
LEVEL WE WISH AND WE TALK ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION ALL THE TIME
AND WE BRING TO DEVELOPERS
ABOUT IT.
WE TELL OUR FRUSTRATIONS.
WE DON'T HAVE CONTROL OVER
THAT.
IT'S GOING TO BE SIMILAR WITHIN
THE SET BACK BUT WE WISH WE
COULD SEE WHAT WE SPEND TIME
POSTPONING ASKING FOR
REDESIGNS.
WE KNOW THE OPPORTUNITY COST.
WE KNOW THAT THE COST CAN ROLL
OVER INTO THE RENTAL COST,
MAKING AFFORDABILITY EVEN
HARDER FOR UNITS AND I'M READY
TO ALLOW MORE UNITS TO BUILD
MORE CORRIDORS INSTEAD
OF HOLDING SPACE THAT MAY NEVER
BE IMPROVED.
OK WITH COMMISSIONER CLARK THEN
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE AND
THEN COMMISSIONER WAGE.
BUT BEFORE I JUST WANT TO
CLARIFY SOMETHING THAT YOU
SAID, ALEXIS, WHICH IS THAT
WHEN WE APPROVED THIS THE FIRST
TIME AROUND WE DID IT THINKING
THAT WE HAD THIS KIND
OF GENEROUS BASE.
MY MEMORY IS ACTUALLY THAT WE
DEBATED THIS AT LENGTH
SPECIFICALLY STADIUM CORRIDOR
AT LENGTH AND DECIDED TO
APPROVE IT AS IT AS IT'S
CURRENTLY ADOPTED.
SORRY THERE'S A CLARIFICATION
OF MY CLARIFICATION BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WELL, I WOULD JUST SAY I
REMEMBER THAT CONVERSATION AND
I BELIEVE IT WAS COMMISSIONER
GIVE RANDALL WHO WE ACTUALLY
RAISED IN YOUR WORD AND I BUT
SHE WASN'T THE ONLY ONE I
BELIEVE WILL MOVE THIS FORWARD
WITH THE IDEA THAT WE KNEW WE
NEEDED TO COME BACK THAT THAT
THAT WAS NOT SOLVED BUT THAT WE
WANTED TO MAKE SOME PROGRESS ON
THIS AND BECAUSE THIS REQUIRED
MORE STUDY THAT WE SHOULD DO
THIS STUDY, I BELIEVE THAT I
MAYBE HAVE VOTED AT.
SO THAT MAY BE HOW YOU VOTED OR
HOW OTHERS VOTED.
BUT I WOULD SAY AS A BODY WE
SAID WE APPROVED IT.
WE DIDN'T WITH CONDITIONS OR SO
I'M JUST I JUST WANT TO SAY
THAT WE DELIBERATED AT LENGTH.
IT WASN'T THAT WE HAD DIDN'T
HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION OR
DIDN'T HAVE THE RIGHT
INFORMATION.
SO OK, I'M YOU'RE ON DECK.
OK, THANKS.
I'LL KEEP IT BRIEF.
IT'S I WAS GOING TO SAY THAT I
WOULD HOPE THE ABSOLUTE MINIMUM
IF WE DO SOMEHOW THIS DOES GO
THROUGH OR WHATEVER THERE IS
SOME CONSIDERATION FOR DOING
THINGS LIKE PERMITTING
OBSTRUCTIONS SUCH
THIS IS UNDER
OUR GUIDANCE AGAIN ALLOWING
THINGS LIKE DORMERS AND OTHER
PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS INTO
SHADING LIKE SHADING DEVICES
BALCONY'S INTO THE BUILDING
SETBACKS AND THE SETBACK LIMITS
WHICH ADDS INTRUST AND MORE
ENGAGING SIDEWALKS.
AND I DO THINK THAT SOMETHING
THAT IS GETTING A LITTLE BIT
LOST HERE IS IN FOCUSING ON THE
LARGE AMOUNTS OF SPACE AND
RESERVING SPACE THAT MAY OR MAY
NOT BE ABLE TO BE DEVELOPED.
A VERY LONG TIMELINE AS
COMMISSIONER SALVY MENTIONED
VERY WELL SAID ABOUT WHERE
WE'RE GOING TO BE PUTTING OUR
EFFORTS AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT
THE FUTURE.
I DO WANT TO JUST POINT OUT
THERE ARE OTHER WAYS TO MAKE
THIS SITE ENGAGING AND THEN
SOME OF THE LESS WALKABLE AREAS
ARE WHERE TREES AND THINGS
BLOCK THE SIDEWALK FROM VIEW
AND I GUESS UNDER IDEA
OF SAFETY BUT SAFETY FOR WHO IT
DOESN'T ALWAYS FEEL SAFE TO
WALK THROUGH A DARK SHADED AREA
THAT'S SECLUDED FROM THE ROAD
OFTEN I PERSONALLY WILL PICK
THE RIGHT AREA THAT'S CLOSEST
TO THE STREET MOST IN VIEW JUST
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT FEELS SAFE
IS WHAT JUMPS TO MIND IS WHERE
AND WASHINGTON WHERE THE WIRES
AND THEN ACROSS THE STREET
THERE'S THAT LIKE ABANDONED
BUILDING CITY OWNED CAMERA
CALLED BUT I'M NOT MAD BUT I
ALWAYS WALK ON THE SIDE OF THE
BUILDING RIGHT NEXT TO THE ROAD
JUST BECAUSE IT FEELS MORE
VISIBLE WHEREAS ON THE Y SIDE
YOU'RE WALKING PAST AND THERE'S
ALL THESE KIND OF DARK LITTLE
LIKE ICARUS'S THAT KIND OF GO
IN AND THEN OUT.
THERE'S PILLAR'S WALKING
THROUGH IT AT NIGHT.
IT JUST FEELS VERY MORE EXPOSED
LIKE IT JUST ISN'T AS
COMFORTABLE.
SO I DO THINK ASSUMPTIONS ON
SEPARATING FROM THE ROAD BEING
SAFER IS KIND OF AN OPINION.
YOU THINK ABOUT THE PLACES
WHERE WE HAVE THAT ALONG
WASHTENAW WHERE THERE'S WALKING
PATH THAT GOES OFF ALONGSIDE
THE ROAD YOU'LL STILL SEE
PEOPLE THAT ARE WALKING RIGHT
UP BY THE ROAD AT NIGHT LIKE
ALONGSIDE THE ROAD OR ON THE
GRASS.
I DON'T KNOW I CAN'T SPECULATE
DON'T REASONING BUT I JUST KNOW
THAT SECLUDED PATHS ARE EARLY
ESPECIALLY YOU KNOW, FOR WOMEN
AND OTHER PEOPLE THAT ARE I
HAVE TO THINK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT SAFETY ANYWAY AND THEN
YEAH, I JUST WANT TO ENCOURAGE
IF YOU KNOW THERE IS SPACE IN
THE CODE TO SAY YOU THE GIVE
FOR DEVELOPERS FREEDOM TO USE
ANY EXTENDED RIGHT AWAY WE
MIGHT JUST DECIDE ON ON THINGS
LIKE SIGNAGE THAT GOES INTO THE
SIDEWALK, OTHER THINGS THAT
JUST MAKE IT MORE ENGAGING AND
LESS JUST KIND OF OPEN SUBURBAN
FEELING LIKE HOW IT FEELS ON
EISENHAUER AND ALL THAT AREA
HUGE SETBACKS THAT ARE JUST NOT
APPEALING.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
OK, SO I WAS NOT HERE FOR
PREVIOUS DELIBERATIONS SO YOU
GET ME AND MY ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT TRYING TO FIGURE THIS
OUT FROM MY PERSPECTIVE WHICH
IS AS A PEDESTRIAN I DON'T RIDE
A BIKE, I DON'T DRIVE A CAR.
I CAN DRIVE A CAR, I CAN'T RIDE
A BIKE SO I AM A PEDESTRIAN AND
I PEDAL A LOT AND SO WHEN I
LOOK AT MY FIRST WHEN I WAS
READING THIS 20 TO 40 FEET I
WAS LIKE HOLY COW, 20 TO 40
FEET THAT IS SO MUCH.
AND THEN I WALKED OUT OF MY
HOUSE WHICH IS ON SOUTH MAIN
STREET AND I WALK THE TEN FEET
ACROSS MY LAWN FIVE FEET ACROSS
THE SIDEWALK, THE FIVE FEET TO
THE ACROSS THE WHAT I CALL
EXTENSION BUT HAS TEN THOUSAND
NAMES AND YOU CAN WATCH MY TV
FROM THE CURB WHICH IS TWENTY
FEET SO TWENTY OR FORTY FEET
YOU'RE NOT OFF IN THE WILDWOODS
YOU'RE YOU ARE TWENTY FEET IS
NOT THAT FAR NOW FORTY FEET
STILL SEEMS LIKE A LOT TO ME I
GOT TO BE HONEST LIKE FORTY
FEET SEEMS LIKE MAYBE TOO MUCH
BUT TWENTY FEET AND AND WHEN I
SAY YOU CAN WATCH MY TV
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE DO THAT ON
A REGULAR BASIS SO I YOU CAN
COME BY SATURDAY AND YOU CAN
SEE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WATCHING TV FROM THE CURB.
SO I DON'T THINK TWENTY FEET TO
ME SEEMS PRETTY REASONABLE
AGAIN THE FORTY FEET MAYBE BUT
IF YOU WALK FROM MY HOUSE DOWN
SOUTH MAIN STREET AND YOU GET
TO A PRETTY BIG PLACE MICHIGAN
STADIUM, MICHIGAN STADIUM IS
RIGHT ON THE SIDEWALK.
IT IS RIGHT ON THE SIDEWALK AND
IT IS DREADFULLY UNCOMFORTABLE
,HAS A VERY WIDE SIDEWALK.
THERE'S NO TREES, THERE'S NO
PEDESTRIAN AMENITY.
THERE IS NO IT IS JUST YOU
KNOW, BUILDING AND THEN THE
SIDEWALK AND IT'S REALLY
UNCOMFORTABLE AND IF YOU WALK
KNOW THE THE BLOCK BEFORE THAT
IT'S IT'S LIKE I MEAN PEOPLE
DON'T LIKE TO WALK.
IT IS VERY UNCOMFORTABLE.
PEOPLE WALK INTO THE PARKING
STRUCTURE OR THE PARKING LOT
AND KEACH BECAUSE IT IS YOU'RE
YOU'RE LITERALLY KIND OF TRYING
TO TO GET AWAY FROM THE FEEL
OF THE CARS AND THE TRUCKS
THEY'RE SO YOU KNOW, I
DEFINITELY HAVE I DON'T KNOW
THAT I HAVE THE I DON'T HAVE
THE DEVELOPMENT OF OPINIONS AND
BACKGROUND THAT SOME PEOPLE
HAVE.
BUT I DO HAVE THE PEDESTRIAN
OPINION AND I DO HAVE THE
ASPIRATIONS FOR WANTING IT TO
LIKE WE WANT MORE BUILDING, WE
WANT MORE HOUSING BUT WE ALSO
WANT PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES.
WE WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
WALK.
WE WANT IT TO BE COMFORTABLE.
I DON'T WANT TO BE SPLASHED
WITH ICE SNOW ON A REGULAR
BASIS AS I'M WALKING BECAUSE
THAT LIMITS HOW MUCH I WANT TO
WALK PLACES.
THAT MEANS I WANT TO GET IN MY
CAR AND I WANT TO TAKE MY CAR
PLACES BECAUSE THE WALKING
EXPERIENCE IS NOT WHAT WE WANT
AND SO I AM CONCERNED THAT IF
WE GO ALL BUILDING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO SAY WE'RE GOING TO
REMOVE THE ABILITY FOR PEOPLE
TO TO WALK ON US CLEARED
OF SNOW SO THAT THE PLOW
DOESN'T COME.
THE PLOW LITERALLY WILL GO AND
I'VE MEASURED FIFTEEN FEET INTO
MY YARD SNOW SO YOU KNOW SO IF
WE IF WE'RE REALLY CLOSE IN
THERE THAT MEANS WE ARE
RESTRICTING SIDEWALKS FOR SOME
PART OF OUR OF OUR SEASON.
I THINK THAT THAT ALLOWING
INTRUSIONS INTO THE SETBACK SO
THAT IT CAN YOU CAN HAVE
BUILDINGS HAVE VARIATIONS I
THINK IS A REALLY GOOD IDEA
BECAUSE I THINK THAT MAKES FOR
BETTER PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE.
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHEN YOU'RE GOING ON
SORT OF TRANSIT IF YOU WATCH
PEOPLE WALK DOWN MAIN STREET OR
DOWN WHICH I REALIZE NOT TO SEE
ONE BUT DOWN STADIUM YOU'RE
CARRYING STROLLERS, YOU'VE GOT
GROCERY CARTS, YOU'VE GOT A LOT
OF THINGS THAT YOU KNOW, A FIVE
FOOT SIDEWALK ISN'T REALLY
COMFORTABLE WITH AND OFTEN YOU
HAVE PEOPLE WITH WHEELCHAIRS
AND YOU HAVE MULTIPLE PEOPLE
WITH WHEELCHAIRS AND YOU HAVE
PEOPLE WITH WHEELCHAIRS WITH A
STROLLER OR WHEELCHAIRS WITH A
DOG.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I THINK WE
NEED TO LIKE THE SIDEWALKS
AREN'T JUST TEMPORARY THINGS
FOR PEOPLE.
THEY ARE AN ACTUAL FORM
OF TRANSIT AND I THINK WE NEED
TO BE ASPIRATIONAL ABOUT
KEEPING THE SIDEWALKS AS PART
OF OUR TRANSIT SYSTEM NOT JUST
A THING TO GET FROM ONE PLACE
TO ANOTHER.
AND SO I LIKE THIS BECAUSE IT
IS STILL ASPIRATIONAL.
I GET THAT THAT MAY BE TOO
ASPIRATIONAL BUT THAT WE WE ARE
SAVING OUR SIDEWALKS AS PLACES
WHERE YOU CAN WALK, THAT YOU
DON'T GET SPLASHED, YOU DON'T
GET SUN, YOU DON'T GET YOU KNOW
THAT IT IS A LEGITIMATE TRANSIT
OPTION.
SO THAT'S I THOUGHT I THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER POPE.
SORRY FIRST WANTED TO SAY
SOMETHING I JUST WANT TO FOLLOW
UP ON ONE THING THERE'S BEEN
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY A LOT
OF THOUGHT ABOUT THE IMPORTANT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE RIGHT
OF WAY AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
RIGHT.
AND WHERE WE SHOULD BE MAKING
THOSE INVESTMENTS.
I LIKE TO MIND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT YOU HAVE A ROLE
IN BOTH OF THOSE YOU APPROVE
THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN.
SO THAT ALSO GIVES YOU THE
ABILITY TO SAY HEY CITY, WE
DON'T THINK YOU SHOULD BE DOING
ALL OF THESE INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS ELSEWHERE IN THE
CITY.
WE THINK YOU SHOULD BE
INVESTING YOUR RESOURCES HERE
SO I WANT I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE THE
BUDGETARY AUTHORITY TO DO THAT
BUT YOU DO HAVE THE REGULATORY
AUTHORITY TO TELL THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT IN YOUR OPINION WE
SHOULD NOT BE PAVING, REPAVING,
IMPROVING TRANSIT IN THESE
AREAS.
WE SHOULD BE PUTTING THOSE
RESOURCES INTO THESE CORRIDORS.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU
THERE'S A LOT OF CONVERSATION
ABOUT THAT AND I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT YOU HAVE SOME AGENCY
IN THE DECISIONS THAT YOU
PROMOTE TO THE CITY COUNCIL
THAT SAY THIS IS WHERE WE THINK
YOU SHOULD SPEND YOUR RESOURCES
INSTEAD OF SPENDING THEM IN
THESE OTHER PLACES.
COMMISSIONER
, I KNOW THE THE
THING THAT I AM STRUCK BY IN
THIS CONVERSATION AND I CAN'T
MOVE FROM AND FIRST LET ME JUST
SAY THANK YOU, KELLY, FOR YOUR
PRESENTATION AND SOMETHING THAT
IS NEW TO OUR PACKETT POTENTIAL
COUNTERARGUMENTS AND RESPONSES
.
SO I THOUGHT THAT WAS REALLY,
REALLY HELPFUL AND I'M GOING TO
COME BACK TO SOME OF THESE
POTENTIAL COUNTERARGUMENTS
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S WHERE I
AM STUCK 40 FEET IS TOO FAR.
SO I I JUST SAY THAT VERY
CLEARLY WHEN I SAW THAT I HAD
THE SIMILAR REACTION TO
COMMISSIONER LEATHERBY IS JUST
LIKE OH BOY NOW WE'RE
REDESIGNING FOUR SUBURBAN
LANDSCAPES WHICH I THOUGHT WE
WERE TRYING TO GET AWAY FROM.
>> I UNDERSTAND I BELIEVE I
UNDERSTAND THE LAYOUT THAT WE
ARE CONSIDERING.
SO WHEN WE LOOK AT IN
YOUR
STAFF REPORT THE SIDEWALK WITH
ILLUSTRATION WHICH IS REALLY
HELPFUL, I THIS MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE TO ME AND I THINK IF
CITY COUNCIL WAS INITIATING A
REDESIGN OF THE STREETS THAT
ONE HAS COME TO THIS WOULD ALL
MAKE SENSE BECAUSE NOW WE WOULD
SAY WE HAVE THESE THIS BUILT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> HOW DO WE ACHIEVE THE
PEDESTRIAN ZONE THAT WE NEED
OF 10 FEET THE FRONT FOR THE
DOOR SWAYING AS WELL AS A
POTENTIAL PEDESTRIAN AMENITY.
SO AND WITH THE BUILT IN
BATHMAT THAT PROBABLY MEANS
THAT WE WOULD CHANGE THE
ROADWAY BUT THAT'S NOT WHERE WE
ARE.
AND I FEEL LIKE AND I'VE SAID
THIS BEFORE AND I APPRECIATE
YOUR COUNTERARGUMENT TO THIS IS
WHAT WE ARE BEING ASKED TO DO
IS TO ASK PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT
TO BANK LAND FOR SOME EVENTUAL
ASPIRATIONAL GOAL TO REHAB
THESE STREETS AND I JUST DON'T
THAT'S JUST THAT DOESN'T FEEL
RIGHT TO ME AND A LOT OF WAYS
IT JUST DOESN'T FEEL LIKE
THAT'S WHAT WE SHOULD BE
SPENDING OUR TIME ON.
AND I THINK I SAID THIS WHEN
THIS CAME TO US IN DECEMBER AND
SO I I AM SAYING THE SAME
THING.
I WAS AT THE TABLE WHEN WE HAD
THE CONVERSATION ABOUT STADIUM
MAPLE AND THE THE SIGNIFICANT
PART OF THE CONVERSATION WAS
ABOUT TREES AND SIGHTLINES AND
THAT COMES BACK TO CARS AND AND
I JUST WANT TO JUST SAY IT
AGAIN WE DO A LOT TO
ACCOMMODATE CARS AND IF OUR
EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS ARE REAL
AND OUR OUR AND WE WANT TO
REALIZE THEM, WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO MAKE SOME REALLY HARD
DECISIONS ABOUT HOW MUCH WE
PRIORITIZE OUR LAND USE FOR
CARS AND THAT'S WHAT I AM
SEEING LIKE I LOVED WHAT
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE JUST
SAID.
I WALK TO AS MUCH AS YOU BUT I
WALK TO AND I BIKE AND
SOMETIMES IT'S NOT SAFE FOR ME
TO IN THE BIKE WAY SO I BIKE ON
THE SIDEWALK AND I WAS LIKE I
WISH THIS WAS A 10 FOOT RIGHT.
I WISH THIS WAS A 10 FOOT
SIDEWALK SO THAT YOU AND I CAN
BE HERE BECAUSE I DON'T FEEL
SAFE IN THE STREET AND SO WE
THIS IS ALL ABOUT CARS.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT US MOVING
CARS.
THIS WE HAD WHAT'S HIS NAME
FROM TRANSPORTATION RAYMOND.
HE CAME AND SPOKE AT THE AT THE
WORK SESSION I LISTEN TODAY I
WASN'T RECORDING THIS WAS PRE
WHEN WE STARTED RECORDING THE
ZOOM'S AND HE WAS LIKE PEOPLE
THE SPEED LIMIT IS THIRTY FIVE
PEOPLE ARE AT FORTY FIVE MILES
PER HOUR DOWN THAT ROAD AND WE
NOW SEE THE RESULT OF THAT A
CAR IN THE SUBWAY DOWN THAT
ROAD WE'VE SEEN DRIVERS DRIVE
TO BANKS ON THAT ROAD IF NOT ON
STADIUM THEN OFF OF THE
INTERSECTION WE'VE SEEN CARS
FLIPPED AND IT'S ALL BECAUSE WE
ARE IN OUR COMMUNITY
PRIORITIZING CARS.
WE'RE NOT PRIORITIZING
PEDESTRIANS AND THIS FEELS LIKE
WE ARE STUCK AND SO I CAN'T
SUPPORT THIS AS IT IS
PRESENTED.
I I DIDN'T WANT THIS BACK AT
THE TABLE WHEN IT CAME IN
DECEMBER AND I DIDN'T VOTE ON
IT SO THAT IT WOULD COME BACK
TO THE TABLE.
I VOTED ON IT SO THAT WE COULD
GET TO WASHTENAW AND PLYMOUTH
AND WE WERE STUCK HERE AT THE
STADIUM AND I'M REALLY
DISAPPOINTED THAT WE'VE HAD TO
SPEND YOUR TIME AND THIS TABLES
TIME TALKING ABOUT THIS THING
WHICH IS REALLY A
PRIORITIZATION OF CARS.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT CARS.
IT'S REALLY NOT ABOUT
PEDESTRIANS.
>> IF IT WERE WE'D BE TALKING
ABOUT SHRINKING THE ROADWAY.
SO THOSE ARE MY THOUGHTS.
UM, I SEE.
I JUST WANT TO ASK A QUESTION
FIRST MAYBE JUST A PROCEDURAL
QUESTION WHICH IS WHAT DOES IT
MEAN THAT CITY COUNCIL DIRECTS
A PLANNING COMMISSION TO
EVALUATE AND RECOMMEND
AMENDMENTS THAT ADDRESS
CONSTRAINTS OF EXISTING RIGHT
AWAY AND HYPOTHETICALLY
PLANNING COMMISSION SAYS WE
HAVE NO RECOMMENDED AMENDMENT
AS A THAT'S JUST THAT'S JUST
HOW THAT FALLS OUT.
>> YEAH, IF YOU VOTED TO
APPROVE THIS, IT WOULD BE
FORWARD IF YOU VOTED AGAINST
IT, WE WOULD PROBABLY FORWARD
IT TO THE CITY COUNCIL WITH
YOUR RECOMMENDATION NO DENIAL
AS A RESPONSE TO COUNCIL ASKING
FOR SOMETHING AND THEN CITY
COUNCIL VOTE TO ADOPT IT.
ABSOLUTELY.
THEY DON'T NEED US TO PROVE IT.
CORRECT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION, COMMISSIONER.
>> SO I MEAN I I DO REGRET THAT
WE HAVEN'T MADE MORE PROGRESS
ON PLYMOUTH BUT I DON'T THINK
THAT THIS EXERCISE WHICH IS NOT
JUST AN EXERCISE BUT AN
EXTREMELY THOUGHTFUL
CONSIDERATION OF PEDESTRIAN
SUPPORTIVE DESIGN THAT COMES
FROM SOMEONE WHO HAS
CONSIDERABLE EXPERTIZE THERE.
I DON'T I DON'T LOOK AT THIS AS
AS A POOR USE OF TIME.
I THINK WE WOULD HAVE GOTTEN
FURTHER WITH EXCUSE ME WITH THE
ONE ZONES THAT ARE CORRIDORS
THAT WE NEED TO ZONE IF WE
WEREN'T SHORT STAFFED ON THE
PLANNING STAFF AND WE ARE SHORT
STAFFED IN ALMOST EVERY AREA
OF THE CITY AND IT'S VERY
FRUSTRATING TO ME BECAUSE
THINGS AREN'T GETTING DONE AS
FAST AS PEOPLE WANT BUT WE
CAN'T WORK PEOPLE AROUND THE
CLOCK UNLESS THERE YOU HAVE
MITT PEOPLE THEY CAN BE WORKED
AROUND THE CLOCK.
I DON'T AGREE THAT WHEN IT'S
TRUE I DON'T AGREE THAT WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT TREES WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ACCOMMODATING CARS.
WE ARE ACTUALLY TALKING ABOUT
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND WE
ARE CURRENTLY FIGHTING ABOUT
OUR USE OF TREES AS STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT IN COURT AND I'M
ALLOWED TO TALK ABOUT IT
BECAUSE WE'VE HAD A DECISION
YOU KNOW THE MASTERS REPORT
THAT WAS PUBLISHED THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT IS UNIQUE THAT
WE DO THE DETROIT IS DOING IT
IS IT IS WORTH IT TO ME THAT WE
WOULD HAVE TREES NOT JUST SHADE
PEDESTRIANS, ALTHOUGH I PREFER
WALKING THE SHADE ALSO BUT THAT
WE HAVE TREES TO HELP US MEET A
TWO ZERO GOALS THAT ARE ABOUT
STORM WATER, WHICH IS WHAT THIS
CITY IS GOING TO BE FULL
OF INCREASINGLY SO I I DON'T
ACCEPT THAT.
I THINK THAT THE OTHER ISSUE IS
ADDRESSED WITH THIS GREAT WAY
OF MEASURING FROM THE BACK
OF CURB IS THE INCONSISTENCY
AND WHERE PROPERTY LINES SIT
AND PART OF THE PROBLEM WITH
HAVING A A DECENT LOOKING TAXI
ONE CORRIDOR IS THAT YOU CAN
HAVE IT IF PROPERTY LINES ARE
SAWTOOTH AND SOME BUILDINGS ARE
HERE AND SOME BUILDINGS ARE
THERE.
AND SO THIS ALSO ATTEMPTS TO
ADDRESS THE CONSISTENCY PROBLEM
.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THIS
REWORDED SO THAT RECESS WAS
ALLOWED.
I THINK THAT MAKES A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF SENSE AND IT'S BASED
ON A MODEL OF A PROJECT THAT I
THINK WE ALL THINK WE HAVE A
LOT TO LEARN FROM.
SO IF WE COULD DO THAT I'D BE
HAPPY.
I DON'T I'M I WOULD I BELIEVE
THAT I'VE HEARD SOME CONCERN
ABOUT THE MAX OF FORTY AND I'M
WONDERING IF WE COULD HEAR WHAT
THE COST WOULD BE TO YOU CHANGE
IT SO THAT INSTEAD OF SAYING A
MAN OF TWENTY IN A MAX OF FORTY
WHAT WOULD WE LOSE IF WE SAID A
MAX OF TWENTY OR A MAX
OF TWENTY FIVE WHAT WHAT WOULD
WE LOSE IF WE IF WE ASKED FOR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND I I
HAVE NO ACTUAL I DON'T THINK
THIS IS GOING TO PASS AND IT IS
TOTALLY FINE BECAUSE I THINK
THAT IT IS REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
VOTE AS THEY SEE FIT.
YOU BRING A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF EXPERTIZE TO THE TABLE AND I
RESPECT IT AND I WILL MAKE SURE
THAT IT IS PRESENTED TO CITY
COUNCIL AND CITY COUNCIL WILL
PROBABLY TAKE IT VERY SOON THAT
PROBABLY CITY COUNCIL WILL TAKE
SERIOUSLY AND THEN WE WILL
DELIBERATE BECAUSE WE FOUGHT
PRETTY HARD OVER THIS TO THE
NIGHT THAT WE DECIDED TO SEND
THIS BACK SO I DON'T I DON'T
I'M NOT TRYING TO SO I DON'T
KNOW IF I SHOULD BE ASKING FOR
CHANGES THAT I THINK WILL MAKE
PEOPLE HAPPIER WITH IT BECAUSE
IT DOESN'T REALLY MATTER.
I MEAN IF YOU GUYS ARE UNHAPPY
IT'S OK.
I DON'T WANT TO TRY TO APPEASE
YOU AND THEN YOU FORCE YOUR
HAND BUT I WOULD LIKE RECESS
PERSONALLY I WOULD BE I WOULD
PREFER IF IT CAME TO THE
COUNCIL TABLE WITH RECESS AND I
COULD HEAR PLUSES AND MINUSES
TO GOING WITH A LOWER MAXIMUM
OR SIMPLY A MAXIMUM AND NOT
MINIMUM WAGE.
NO, WE HAVE TO HAVE A MINIMUM
I'M SORRY STUPID.
YES, WE HAVE TO HAVE A MINIMUM.
OK, SO LESS DISTANCE BETWEEN
THE MINIMUM AND THE MAXIMUM IS
IS WHAT I WOULD MEAN TO SAY SO
AND THAT WE CAN TAKE OFFLINE IF
NOBODY WANTS TO TALK ABOUT THAT
TONIGHT BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
THAT THAT'S GOING TO WIN VOTES
THAT ARE AGAINST AND I FEEL WE
SHOULD WE SHOULD HAVE A FULL
EXPRESSION OF OF THE OF THE
MIXED FEELINGS THAT ARE ON THE
COMMISSION.
I THINK THAT'S JUST FINE.
>> I JUST I WANT TO OFFER ME
THE UH A REFRAMING OF THE
CONVERSATION THAT I'M HEARING.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY HERE IS
ANTI TREE OR
ANTI SHADE.
EVERYBODY HERE LOVES BIKE LANES
WIDE SIDEWALKS, TREES.
I THINK THE QUESTION ON THE
TABLE IS WHETHER THE SPACE THAT
WE ARE MAKING FOR THAT IN THE
CITY OR IN THE CORRIDOR
CORRIDORS VERY SPECIFICALLY
SHOULD COME FROM THE STREETS OR
SHOULD COME FROM PRIVATE WHAT
PRIVATE PRIVATELY OWNED
PROPERTY THAT WE THEN NEED TO
ACQUIRE.
THEY ARE BOTH ASPIRATIONAL.
THEY'RE BOTH VERY EXPENSIVE.
THEY'RE BOTH A LOT OF UNKNOWNS
IN THERE.
SO IN SOME WAYS IT'S UH IT'S A
FOUR I'LL JUST SAY THIS FOR ME
THEN IT BECOMES A QUESTION
OF LIKE IN THE ABSTRACT OR IN
PRINCIPLE WHERE SHOULD THAT 20
FEET COME FROM AND SHOULD IT
COME FROM THE SPACE BETWEEN THE
TWO CURBS ON STADIUM BOULEVARD
OR SHOULD IT COME FROM WHAT IS
NOW CURRENTLY THE LOT SO I
THINK WE'RE ALL IN SUPPORT
OF THE AMENITIES THAT THIS
SPACE WOULD PROVIDE.
WE COULD BE THE WET'S BUT AND
THEN I ALSO JUST WANTED TO SAY
I DON'T THINK THIS PROPOSAL
SOLVES THE SORT OF PROBLEM THAT
YOU WERE POINTING OUT BECAUSE
IT HAS A 20 TO 40 CURRENTLY AS
WRITTEN A 20 TO 40 FOOT RANGE.
SO YOU'RE STILL GOING TO GET
YEAH.
YOU'RE STILL GOING TO GET AN
INCONSISTENT WE'RE NOT GOING TO
GET A CONSISTENCY.
WELL, SO NARROWING IT TO TWENTY
TO TWENTY FIVE WOULD CHANGE
THAT.
BUT CLARK, I SAW YOUR HAND UP.
YEAH.
JUST A QUICK QUESTION.
UM SO IS THERE ANYTHING I MEAN
JUST TO BE CLEAR WE COULD HAVE
ZERO BUILD TO LINE.
I DON'T THINK THERE IS
NECESSARILY LIKE WE COULD HAVE
JUST A MAXIMUM AND THAT IS
ACTUALLY SOMETHING THAT'S IN
MICHIGAN'S ZONING REDEVELOPMENT
READY QUARTER HANDBOOK IS
BILLED TO RANGES THAT YOU KNOW
,OFFERING THE MINIMUM SET BACK
LINE.
WOULD THEY EVEN SAY A LITTLE
SUPPORT PLACEMAKING ISSUES
THROUGH INVITING BUILDING FOR
STATE LINES AND I DO THINK
THAT'S SOMETHING WORTH
CONSIDERING IS THAT THIS ISN'T
GOING TO HAPPEN OVERNIGHT AND
THERE ARE GOING TO BE
NONCONFORMITY IS EITHER WAY
WHETHER IT'S YOU KNOW, IF WE DO
ALLOW PEOPLE TO BUILD UP TO THE
TO THE FLAT LINE AND THEN MAYBE
I DON'T KNOW IT JUST GETTING
DEEP IN THE WEEDS IF THERE'S A
WAY TO REQUIRE A SIDEWALK
EXPANSION, THERE'S NO REASON WE
COULDN'T HAVE DESIGN GUIDANCE
THAT SEPARATE FROM THE ZONING
GUIDANCE THAT KIND OF PROVIDES
DEVELOPERS WITH GUIDANCE ABOUT
WHAT WE'D LIKE TO SEE ON THIS.
THAT'S A WHOLE NOTHER
CONVERSATION.
SO MOVE AWAY FROM THAT.
BUT YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO
POINT THAT OUT.
AND THEN THE OTHER QUESTION I
HAD JUST FOR CLARIFICATION IS
THERE ANYTHING WITH THE BACK
BETWEEN THE CURB AND THE
BUILDING THE DEVELOPERS WOULD
BE ABLE TO LIKE WHAT COULD
POTENTIALLY GO THERE IN THE
MEANTIME UNTIL WE GET FUNDING
TO DO ALL THESE AMENITIES LIKE
YEAH, I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY IT
AGAIN JUST TO KIND SOMETHING
REALLY QUICKLY, JIMMY, WHAT CAN
THEY LEGALLY BUILD IN THE
CURRENTLY PARKING THERE AND
THINGS LIKE THAT IN DC ONE YOU
CAN'T PUT PARKING AIR INTO C
ONE YOU COULD PUT DACS PATIO'S
PLANTING'S SIGNE'S WHAT ELSE
WAS ON THAT LIST?
ALEXIS WITH THEM AND ARTANE WAS
NOT BUILDING BUT ANY SORT
OF AMENITY HARDSCAPE FURNITURE
TYPE FEATURES.
YES, IT'S STILL HARD TO DO
THOUGH.
ANYBODY ELSE.
YEAH DISH DO YOU WANT TO
RESPOND TO YOUR REFRAMING
BECAUSE I AGREE WITH YOU
REFRAMING I DID NOT TAKE THAT
ANYONE IS AGAINST TREES BUT I
DID HEAR THE STATEMENT THAT
WHEN WE ARE TALKING ABOUT TREES
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
ACCOMMODATING CARS AND I DON'T
THINK THAT THAT WAS
REPRESENTATIVE OR BUT THAT IS
BESIDE THE POINT.
YOU ARE RIGHT I BELIEVE THAT WE
REALLY SHOULD TAKE THIS SPACE
OUT OF THE ROAD.
BUT HERE'S WHAT IT SAYS THE
REBUTTAL AND I DON'T TAKE THIS
AS AN ACADEMIC REBUTTAL WHILE
CURBS CAN INDEED MOVE, PROPERTY
LINES CAN ALSO SHIFT THE
PROPOSED SET BACK LANGUAGE
PROVIDES FLEXIBILITY TO THE
PLANNING STAFF ARE INFORMED
THAT CAPITAL PROJECTS TO
SIGNIFICANTLY SHIFT KO'D LINES
ON MAJOR CORRIDORS ARE
UNLIKELY.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S ACADEMIC.
I DON'T THINK IT'S A IN
PRINCIPLE.
I MEAN I THINK BEING THE
REALIST THAT I AM I HAVE VERY
LITTLE HOPE THAT THAT POSITION
IS GOING TO CHANGE IN THIS CITY
ANY TIME SOON.
AND SO I THINK THAT WE HAVE
MORE LEVERAGE OVER AS I THINK
COMMISSIONER WHITE PUTS IT WELL
ASKING FOR THIS OR REQUIRING
THIS LAND BANKING AND I'M SORRY
TO SAY THAT BUT WE ARE FIGHTING
A BATTLE OVER MAIN STREET THAT
NORTHMEN THAT I DON'T THINK YOU
KNOW, GOING TO WIN EASILY.
I MEAN IT'S JUST I DON'T THINK
WE'RE GOING TO GET MOVEMENT ON
THAT POSITION OR IT'S GOING TO
TAKE TWENTY YEARS AND I DON'T
HAVE THAT TIME BECAUSE I THINK
BUILDINGS WILL GET BUILT UP TO
THE ZERO SETBACK AND THEN YOU
CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
YOU WILL JUST NEVER BE ABLE TO
HAVE THE ZONE THAT WE WANT THAT
PEOPLE ARE COMFORTABLE AND SO
AND YOU ALL CAN YOU KNOW BUT
IT'S NOT ABOUT SHOULD IT'S
ABOUT WHAT'S LIKELY THAT'S MY
JUDGMENT.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YEAH, I THINK IN MY VIEW AND
AGAIN HAVING SEEN WHAT HAPPENED
WITH ADDING BIKE LANES ON MAIN
WE WILL CONTINUE WHETHER WE GET
RID OF CARS OR NOT.
WILL YOU CONTINUE TO NEED AT
BIG FLAT SPACE THAT LANES ARE
CURRENTLY SO I ACTUALLY SEE
THIS AS WE'RE HEADED TO THE
CURB WHAT HAPPENS BEYOND THE
CURB TO THE OTHER CURB WE HAVE
WE CAN DO THINGS WITH THAT
HAVING A BIG FLAT PAVED SPACE
DOES NOT MEAN IT HAS TO BE FOR
CARS.
IT COULD BE FOR STROLLERS AND
BIKERS AND ONE WHEELS AND
WHATEVER ELECTRIC VEHICLE COMES
UP WHATEVER PERSONAL TRANSIT
COMES UP, WE ARE NOT
NECESSARILY CEDING THIS TO
AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLES.
WE ARE SITTING TO THINGS THAT
GO ON BIG FLAT CONCRETE SPACES
AND RIGHT NOW WE'RE RIGHT AT
THE TIPPING POINT OF THAT BEING
A LOT OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
SO I ACTUALLY DON'T THINK THAT
WE'RE NECESSARILY SAYING I
THINK WHAT WE ARE ALL GRAPPLING
WITH IS WE DON'T WANT FIVE LANE
ROADS FOR CARS.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE ON HERE IS
LIKE YEAH WE NEED MORE OF THOSE
THROUGH THE CITY BUT WE WHETHER
WE HAVE NO CARS OR NOT, WE
STILL NEED TRANSIT.
WE STILL NEED AND AND PERSONAL
DRONES YOU KNOW WE'RE A LITTLE
WAYS AWAY.
WE'RE PROBABLY NOT AS FAR AWAY
AS BUT WE STILL NEED TO LAND
THEM.
SO YOU KNOW I THINK I THINK WE
CAN SAY THAT WE'RE WHERE WE'RE
PROMOTING THAT WE JUST DROP YOU
OFF.
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL.
I MEAN WE'RE GOING TO GET OUR
PRESCRIPTIONS THAT WAY SO YOU
KNOW BUT UH SO SO I ACTUALLY AM
WE CAN DO WITH PAINT.
>> WE CAN MAKE THESE NOT CAR
LANES AND AND WE ARE DOING THAT
AND WE ARE DOING THAT PRETTY
QUICKLY LIKE WE DID THAT ON
SOUTH MAIN IN AN HOUR FOR FOUR
BLOCKS WHICH SOUNDS SILLY BUT
OH BOY PEOPLE WERE UPSET SO
BECAUSE THEY WENT TO WORK AND
IT WAS ONE CONFIGURATION AND
THEY CAME HOME AND IT WAS A
DIFFERENT CONFIGURATION.
I MEAN THAT'S HOW WE CAN DO
THAT'S HOW WE CAN TRANSFORM AND
AND YES, THAT'S NOT SAFE.
IT'S NOT VOLATILE.
IT'S NOT CHICANES.
IT'S NOT BUT WE CAN DO THAT AND
WE CAN CLOSED STREETS AND WE
CAN AND STILL HAVE THOSE SPACES
SO SO I ACTUALLY AM AND LESS
ABOUT LIKE OH WE'RE GIVING THIS
UP TO CARS.
WE NEED BIG FLAT CONCRETE
SPACES AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO
NEED THOSE WHETHER WE HAVE
VEHICLES OR NOT.
ARE YOU I COULDN'T TELL IF YOUR
HAND WAS UP.
I'M SO TIRED I'M LIKE I HAVE NO
COHERENT AT ALL BUT I THINK
THIS HAS BEEN A REALLY A
DISCUSSION AND I'M I MEAN THERE
IS THIS TENSION BETWEEN THE
ROAD AND THE AND THE PRIVATE
PROPERTY AND I DON'T KNOW HOW
WE'RE GOING BUT I THINK I WOULD
FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE WITH THIS
IF IT WAS NOT FOR ME IF THE
MINIMUM OR THE MAXIMUM CAME
DOWN.
BUT I THINK COMMISSIONER,
WHETHER IT BE SUMMED UP THE
THINGS THAT WERE IN MY HEAD
OF JUST A FIVE LANE ROAD IT'S
ABOUT FIFTY FEET I DON'T KNOW
SIXTY BUT YOU START EATING INTO
THAT AND YOU THINK ABOUT MAYBE
THERE'S A BUS OR A TRANSIT BIKE
LANES BLAH BLAH BUT WE CAN DO
OTHER THINGS THAT THOSE LANES
AND NOTHING IS A PERFECT
SOLUTION AND I WANT TO MOVE ON
TO THE NEXT CORRIDOR SO I THINK
YEAH I'M GOING TO VOTE YES BUT
I'D LIKE THE FORTY FEET REDUCED
IF OTHER PEOPLE WERE IN
AGREEMENT.
COMMISSIONER MILLS I WILL MAKE
THE MOTION TO EAT BEFORE I MAKE
THE MOTION TO WHAT IT IS.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT MAKES
KELLY THOUGHTS ON WHY 40 OR
WHITE OR BETTER.
WHY NOT TWENTY FIVE AS MAX SO
TWENTY FIVE UM
LOOKING AT SOME
EXAMPLES THAT'S NOT TOO FAR
AWAY FROM WHAT I THINK
GAINESVILLE WAS.
I ACTUALLY HAVE IT RIGHT IN
FRONT OF ME THEIR RANGE FOR
EXAMPLE ON WHAT THEY CALL
PRINCIPAL STREETS REQUIRES A
SEVENTEEN FOOT MINIMUM IN A
TWENTY SEVEN FOOT MAXIMUM.
OH YEAH SOME PEOPLE DO THINGS
LIKE THAT
.
I STILL THINK WE WOULD NEED THE
LANGUAGE OR TO THE FRONT
PROPERTY LINE WHICHEVER IS
CLOSER BECAUSE THE OUR THOUGHT
WAS TO TRY TO CATCH A RANGE
OF PROPERTIES AND LOOK AT
WHAT'S CURRENTLY ALLOWED
BECAUSE REALLY UNDER THE
CURRENT REGULATION THEY'RE
THERE QUITE A NUMBER
OF PROPERTIES THAT CAN GO TO
THIRTY FIVE THIRTY SIX OR SO
FEET IF A CURB DOES MOVE AND
SOMEBODY USES THAT ADVICE IF IT
MOVES LIKE A FIVE FOOT OR SIX
INCHES OR SOMETHING WE JUST
WANTED THE SPACE FOR ONE OF THE
CONSIDERATIONS WAS TO ALLOW
WIGGLE ROOM FOR THAT KIND
OF THING AND ALSO JUST
CREATIVITY AND AND LOOK LOOK ON
BEHALF OF DEVELOPERS AND
LOOKING AT WHAT SOME OF THE
DISTANCES ARE ALONG LIKE
STADIUM MANAGER LEINERT AND I
LOOKED AT SOME OF THE DISTANCES
OF OF BUILDINGS AND WE'RE LIKE
WELL THAT'S YOU KNOW THIRTY
EIGHT FEET OR FORTY FEET.
IT JUST DOESN'T FEEL THAT FAR
AND IF YOU MOVE IF YOU LIKE
KIND OF SWAP OR YOU'RE WALKING
IF YOU'RE NOT AT THE VERY EDGE
OF THE ROAD YOU'RE ACTUALLY TEN
FEET CLOSER THAN YOU'RE YOU'RE
A PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE IS
STILL GOING TO BE LIKE TWENTY
FEET AWAY FROM UH FROM A 40
FOOT SETBACK BUILDING.
SO AND YOU KNOW, I'D LIKE THE
EXAMPLE MEASURE WHETHER WE GAVE
THOSE KIND OF FUNNY BEING ABLE
TO SEE SOMEBODY ON TV FROM FAR
AWAY IT'S LOT CLOSER THAN AND
IT FEELS THERE'S PLACES IN OUR
MAIN STREET THAT THAT ARE
VERGING YOU KNOW, THEY WOULD
ROUND UP 30 SO THAT I LOOK SO
WHAT I'M HEARING IS IS GETTING
LATE AND I KNOW 40 IS NOT
DEFINITIVE LIKE THIRTY SEEMS
MORE COMFORTABLE THAN TWENTY
FIVE LIKE TWENTY FIVE MAYBE
THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS THAT
ARE ACTUALLY ALREADY IN SOME
CORRIDORS ALREADY AT I WOULD
SAY IF YOU BROUGHT IT DOWN I
WOULD FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
WITH SOMETHING LIKE THIRTY TO
THIRTY FIVE JUST ALIGNING WITH
WHAT OUR CONSIDERATIONS WERE IN
PRESENTING IT TO YOU THEN
TWENTY FIVE OK I I THINK I
WOULD MAKE A MOTION FOR THIRTY
FIRST AS WELL AS AN
ACCOMMODATION FOR RECESSIVE IS
ACTUALLY I SEE THAT IS PRETTY
IT'S A CLASSIC INVERSE OF THE
RESULT EXACTLY.
OVERHANGS I'M BEFORE THAT
MOTION IS FINALIZED AND WE HAVE
PLANER W WEIGH IN ON THE RESETS
.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE AREA WHERE THAT WOULD BE
ACCOMMODATED WAS PROPERLY
NOTICED FOR TONIGHT JUST TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE TABLE THAT
THAT WOULD LIVE IN WOULD BE IN
THE RIGHT PLACE.
>> ALEXIS, MY MAKING SENSE TO
YOU IF THIS IS MINE I WAS
FOCUSED MIGHT ALSO SAY THAT ONE
MORE TIME JUST THE DESIRE IS TO
AMEND THE MOTION TO NOT ONLY
COME DOWN FROM 40 FOOT MAXIMUM
BUT TO ALSO SOMEHOW INCORPORATE
THIS DESIRE FOR CAN YOU COULD
YOU ACTUALLY ARTICULATE
COMMISSIONER OK, SO YOU WANT ME
TO ARTICULATE THIS IS THE IDEA
OF ALLOWING OR UPPER STOREYS TO
HANG OVER INTO WHAT ON THE
GROUND FLOOR WOULD NOT BE
ALLOWABLE?
RIGHT.
I'M I'M CATCHING THIS NOW.
UM, I DEFINITELY HAVE SOME
THOUGHTS IN THIS COULD BE
CRAFTED OUT.
I DON'T THINK THAT WE WANT TO
WRITE IT ON A TEN FORTY FIVE
BUT I DO UNDERSTAND IF I
UNDERSTAND IF I CAN SUMMARIZE
THAT IT WOULD BE MAYBE THAT
COULD BE EXPRESSED AS THE FIRST
FLOOR SET BACK SHALL BE X AND
UPPER STORIES SHALL BE Y LIKE
IT CAN BE EXPRESSED A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT WAYS BUT THAT IS
THAT IS WHAT THE DESIRE IS
RIGHT.
YES EXACTLY.
>> AND THAT WAS VERY SMART FOR
TEN FORTY EIGHT.
YEAH I WOULD CONFER WITH THE
PLANNING MANAGER AND THE DEPUTY
MANAGER BUT I THINK THAT IF YOU
WANT TO HAVE SOME SOME LINE IF
YOU WANT TO PUT IN THE MOTION
AN AMENDMENT THAT ACCOMPLISHES
THIS, I THINK THAT WE CAN MAKE
THAT HAPPEN AS IT MOVES FORWARD
THAT WOULD GIVE US SOME TIME
BETWEEN A COUNCIL CONVERSATION
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO MEET THE
SPIRIT OF OF THE REQUEST.
PERFECT.
AND YOU DON'T NEED ME TO REPEAT
THAT.
YOU GET THE GIST THAT SOUNDS
LIKE TO AMEND THE MOTION TO
HAVE A MAXIMUM SET BACK
OF THIRTY FEET AT GROUND FLOOR.
YES.
FOR THE FIRST FLOOR.
AND UH, GREATER FLEXIBILITY FOR
YES.
UPPER SUPPER STORIES.
AND UH, GREATER FLEXIBILITY FOR
YES.
UPPER SUPPER STORIES.
THAT IS THE MY PROPOSED
YES.
AMENDMENT.
THAT IS THE MY PROPOSED
DOES ANYONE WANT TO SECOND THAT
AMENDMENT.
MOTION OF BY COMMISSIONER WHILE
DOES ANYONE WANT TO SECOND THAT
IN DISCUSSION I WANTED TO MAYBE
MOTION OF BY COMMISSIONER WHILE
OFFER A DIFFERENT AMENDMENT.
IN DISCUSSION I WANTED TO MAYBE
MAYBE NOW IS THE TIME TO DO
OFFER A DIFFERENT AMENDMENT.
THAT IN THE DISCUSSION WE'RE
MAYBE NOW IS THE TIME TO DO
DISCUSSING.
THAT IN THE DISCUSSION WE'RE
OK, SO UM I THINK THAT TWENTY
DISCUSSING.
FEET IS VERY GENEROUS SO I CAN
OK, SO UM I THINK THAT TWENTY
GET BASICALLY LIKE A MAX MAX
FEET IS VERY GENEROUS SO I CAN
SCENARIO AND I THINK LIKE YES
GET BASICALLY LIKE A MAX MAX
THE NEEDS EIGHT TO TEN FEET BUT
SCENARIO AND I THINK LIKE YES
YOU DON'T HAVE TREES
THE NEEDS EIGHT TO TEN FEET BUT
CONTINUOUSLY THERE EPISODIC
YOU DON'T HAVE TREES
SIMILARLY YOU DON'T HAVE
CONTINUOUSLY THERE EPISODIC
SHELTERS EVERYWHERE YOU DON'T
SIMILARLY YOU DON'T HAVE
HAVE THESE THINGS KIND OF COME
SHELTERS EVERYWHERE YOU DON'T
AND GO.
HAVE THESE THINGS KIND OF COME
I ALSO THE WIDTH OF THE
AND GO.
SIDEWALK CAN CAN CAN CONTRACT
I ALSO THE WIDTH OF THE
AND EXPAND A BIT SO IF I TAKE
SIDEWALK CAN CAN CAN CONTRACT
EIGHT FEET FOUR A SMALLER TREE
AND EXPAND A BIT SO IF I TAKE
OR EIGHT FEET FOR A SHELTER I
EIGHT FEET FOUR A SMALLER TREE
TAKE EVERY PRECAUTION I'M AT
OR EIGHT FEET FOR A SHELTER I
SIXTEEN SO I THINK ACTUALLY I
TAKE EVERY PRECAUTION I'M AT
WOULD PROPOSE A MINIMUM
SIXTEEN SO I THINK ACTUALLY I
OF FIFTEEN AND A MAXIMUM
WOULD PROPOSE A MINIMUM
OF TWENTY FIVE SO I WANT TO
OF FIFTEEN AND A MAXIMUM
THROW THAT ON THE TABLE.
OF TWENTY FIVE SO I WANT TO
COMMISSIONER.
THROW THAT ON THE TABLE.
I LIKE IT.
COMMISSIONER.
I ALSO IN PRINCIPLE STILL DON'T
I LIKE IT.
SUPPORT IF WE'RE STILL IN
I ALSO IN PRINCIPLE STILL DON'T
DISCUSSION AND COUNCIL MEMBER
SUPPORT IF WE'RE STILL IN
VICIOUS COMMENTS AROUND WHAT
DISCUSSION AND COUNCIL MEMBER
COUNCIL WILL DO STILL STANDS WE
VICIOUS COMMENTS AROUND WHAT
COULD STILL WE COULD AMEND THE
COUNCIL WILL DO STILL STANDS WE
UM THE MOTION TO FIT THE BEST
COULD STILL WE COULD AMEND THE
CASE SCENARIO AND STILL VOTE
UM THE MOTION TO FIT THE BEST
THAT DOWN AND THAT WOULD GO AND
CASE SCENARIO AND STILL VOTE
IF COUNCIL ADOPTED IT THEY
THAT DOWN AND THAT WOULD GO AND
WOULD ADOPT THE REDUCED MOTION
IF COUNCIL ADOPTED IT THEY
AS OPPOSED TO THE 20 TO 40
WOULD ADOPT THE REDUCED MOTION
WHICH IS CURRENT.
AS OPPOSED TO THE 20 TO 40
WELL, NO BECAUSE THEY THEN HAVE
WHICH IS CURRENT.
TO CHANGE IT AT THE AT THE
WELL, NO BECAUSE THEY THEN HAVE
TABLE AND THEY ARE KNOWN TO DO
TO CHANGE IT AT THE AT THE
THAT.
TABLE AND THEY ARE KNOWN TO DO
BUT THAT WOULD BE VERY
THAT.
INTERESTING.
BUT THAT WOULD BE VERY
SO THERE IS SOME BENEFIT IN
INTERESTING.
TERMS OF SIGNALING TO COUNCIL
SO THERE IS SOME BENEFIT IN
LIKE OK, WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
TERMS OF SIGNALING TO COUNCIL
THIS, WE'VE DEBATED IT.
LIKE OK, WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
HERE'S WHAT WE THINK.
THIS, WE'VE DEBATED IT.
WE'VE GOT A STAFF REPORT THAT
HERE'S WHAT WE THINK.
WAS 20 OR 40.
WE'VE GOT A STAFF REPORT THAT
WE AMENDED THAT TO FIFTEEN TO
WAS 20 OR 40.
TWENTY FIVE AND THEN THAT STILL
WE AMENDED THAT TO FIFTEEN TO
DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH SUPPORT AND
TWENTY FIVE AND THEN THAT STILL
SO NOW THE CONVERSATION IS
DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH SUPPORT AND
ABOUT WHAT WE SENT TO THEM AS
SO NOW THE CONVERSATION IS
OPPOSED TO THE LARGEST THING.
ABOUT WHAT WE SENT TO THEM AS
SO I THINK THERE IS STILL SOME
OPPOSED TO THE LARGEST THING.
VALUE WITH REGARD TO THAT.
SO I THINK THERE IS STILL SOME
AND IF WE'RE FOLLOWING ROBERT'S
VALUE WITH REGARD TO THAT.
RULES OF ORDER AS THE SECOND TO
AND IF WE'RE FOLLOWING ROBERT'S
THE MOTION IF THE COMMISSIONER
RULES OF ORDER AS THE SECOND TO
MILLS WANT IT TO WITHDRAW HER
THE MOTION IF THE COMMISSIONER
MOTION, I WOULD SUPPORT THAT
MILLS WANT IT TO WITHDRAW HER
AND THEN WE COULD ENTERTAIN THE
MOTION, I WOULD SUPPORT THAT
OTHER WITHOUT HAVING TO VOTE.
AND THEN WE COULD ENTERTAIN THE
I, I LIKE TWENTY TO THIRTY I
OTHER WITHOUT HAVING TO VOTE.
MEAN IF WE WERE GOING TO PASS
I, I LIKE TWENTY TO THIRTY I
THIS IF WE WERE GOING TO IF IF
MEAN IF WE WERE GOING TO PASS
WE IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS IS NOT
THIS IF WE WERE GOING TO IF IF
GOING TO PASS ANYWAY.
WE IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS IS NOT
>> OK UM BECAUSE I MEAN I YEAH
GOING TO PASS ANYWAY.
I DON'T KNOW I I PREFER TWENTY
>> OK UM BECAUSE I MEAN I YEAH
TO THIRTY BUT ALSO LIKE LIKE I
I DON'T KNOW I I PREFER TWENTY
SAID WHEN I STARTED THIS MY TOO
TO THIRTY BUT ALSO LIKE LIKE I
MANY TOO LONG THINGS I THIS IS
SAID WHEN I STARTED THIS MY TOO
WHERE I THINK THAT THERE IS A
MANY TOO LONG THINGS I THIS IS
BIT OF COMPROMISE.
WHERE I THINK THAT THERE IS A
I TOTALLY GET WHAT YOU'RE
BIT OF COMPROMISE.
SAYING COMMISSIONER APRON'S UM
I TOTALLY GET WHAT YOU'RE
IN TERMS OF NOT MEETING AT THE
SAYING COMMISSIONER APRON'S UM
WHOLE TIME SO I IT'S A HARD
IN TERMS OF NOT MEETING AT THE
CALL AND I WELCOME OTHER'S
WHOLE TIME SO I IT'S A HARD
THOUGHTS ON NOW TWO DIFFERENT
CALL AND I WELCOME OTHER'S
THINGS THAT ARE ALL STILL TIED
THOUGHTS ON NOW TWO DIFFERENT
UP IN TALKING ABOUT THE TWENTY
THINGS THAT ARE ALL STILL TIED
VERSUS THIRTY IN FIFTEEN VERSUS
UP IN TALKING ABOUT THE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MR HAMMERSCHMIDT I
VERSUS THIRTY IN FIFTEEN VERSUS
MEAN I GO TO EIGHTEEN BUT YOU
TWENTY FIVE MR HAMMERSCHMIDT I
KNOW LIKE SO I YOUR POINT
MEAN I GO TO EIGHTEEN BUT YOU
OF LIKE THE THE TREES ON
KNOW LIKE SO I YOUR POINT
CONSERVA I DON'T LIKE THE IDEA
OF LIKE THE THE TREES ON
OF SIDEWALKS NECESSARILY LIKE
CONSERVA I DON'T LIKE THE IDEA
THAT SEEMS TO HARD LIKE ALL
OF SIDEWALKS NECESSARILY LIKE
OF A SUDDEN IT'S LIKE EIGHT
THAT SEEMS TO HARD LIKE ALL
FEET AND THEN IT'S TEN FEET AND
OF A SUDDEN IT'S LIKE EIGHT
LIKE I DON'T KNOW JUST VISUALLY
FEET AND THEN IT'S TEN FEET AND
MIGHT LOOK STRANGE BUT IF YOU
LIKE I DON'T KNOW JUST VISUALLY
ONLY NEED EIGHT TEN FEET OR
MIGHT LOOK STRANGE BUT IF YOU
EVEN EIGHT FEET SIXTEEN I DON'T
ONLY NEED EIGHT TEN FEET OR
KNOW I DON'T KNOW THE FIFTEEN
EVEN EIGHT FEET SIXTEEN I DON'T
SEEMS TOO LOW TO ME THERE ARE
KNOW I DON'T KNOW THE FIFTEEN
NUMBERS OF BETWEEN 15 AND 20 I
SEEMS TOO LOW TO ME THERE ARE
MEAN I WILL ALSO SAY THAT KELLY
NUMBERS OF BETWEEN 15 AND 20 I
IS FEELS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE
MEAN I WILL ALSO SAY THAT KELLY
LIKE A RIDICULOUS PROVIDED AS
IS FEELS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE
THIS VERY HELPFUL TABLE AND IF
LIKE A RIDICULOUS PROVIDED AS
YOU GET ON THE TABLE THE RANGES
THIS VERY HELPFUL TABLE AND IF
ARE FOURTEEN NINETEEN 14 TO
YOU GET ON THE TABLE THE RANGES
TWENTY TO FOURTEEN TO TWENTY
ARE FOURTEEN NINETEEN 14 TO
THREE TWELVE TO TWENTY ONE
TWENTY TO FOURTEEN TO TWENTY
EIGHT AND A HAVE TO FOURTEEN
THREE TWELVE TO TWENTY ONE
FIVE TO TEN SEVENTEEN TO TWENTY
EIGHT AND A HAVE TO FOURTEEN
SEVEN I KEEP GOING SO I DON'T
FIVE TO TEN SEVENTEEN TO TWENTY
THINK IT'S OUT OF WHACK WITH
SEVEN I KEEP GOING SO I DON'T
WHAT OTHER CITIES ARE DOING IS
THINK IT'S OUT OF WHACK WITH
MUCH BIGGER THAN OURS THAT
WHAT OTHER CITIES ARE DOING IS
OSTENSIBLY MAYBE HAVE MORE
MUCH BIGGER THAN OURS THAT
TRAFFIC ON THERE PEDESTRIAN
OSTENSIBLY MAYBE HAVE MORE
ROADWAYS THAN WE DO.
TRAFFIC ON THERE PEDESTRIAN
THEY MAY HAVE FEWER TREES.
ROADWAYS THAN WE DO.
WE HAVE NOT LOOKED AT
THEY MAY HAVE FEWER TREES.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
WE HAVE NOT LOOKED AT
IT'S TRUE I WILL CAVEAT THAT
PHOTOGRAPHS.
MOST CITIES DO INVEST IN DESIGN
IT'S TRUE I WILL CAVEAT THAT
GUIDELINES FOR A DOWNTOWN OR A
MOST CITIES DO INVEST IN DESIGN
SPECIFIC CORRIDOR WHICH IS WHAT
GUIDELINES FOR A DOWNTOWN OR A
I WAS ABLE TO PULL EXAMPLES FOR
SPECIFIC CORRIDOR WHICH IS WHAT
BUT THOSE ARE NOT NECESSARILY
I WAS ABLE TO PULL EXAMPLES FOR
INFILL CORRIDORS THAT ARE
BUT THOSE ARE NOT NECESSARILY
DIRECT COMPARISONS
APPLES TO
APPLES TO WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
HERE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION ON THE TABLE?
I THINK THE MOTION ON THE TABLE
IS TWENTY AND THIRTY TWENTY
MINIMUM THIRTY MARKS.
I HAVEN'T MADE IT.
I WASN'T MINE WAS NOT AN
OFFICIAL MOTION.
RIGHT.
AND I'M I'M STILL ON THE FENCE
ABOUT FRIENDLY AMENDMENTS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ABOUT A
FRIENDLY AMENDMENT TO EIGHTEEN
TO A MAXIMUM OF THIRTY TWENTY
EIGHTEEN TO TWENTY EIGHT SOLD
GOING ONCE SO DIFFERENT I DON'T
KNOW IF IT WAS ACTUALLY
FRIENDLY TO COMMISSIONERS MILLS
AND WHICH IS FRIENDLY THEN OUR
AMENDMENT IT'S STILL ALL RIGHT
I HAVE NO OBJECTION SORRY I
THINK WE'RE READY FOR A VOTE ON
THAT AMENDMENT SO I THINK THAT
THIS WOULD FALL UNDER UM MAYBE
THIS SECOND VOTE IN THE MOTION.
THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS TO A
STREET TYPE DESIGNATION THAT'S
TAILORED TO TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
I'M HEARING THAT WE'RE
PRIMARILY LOOKING IN THE SECOND
BULLETS TO SAY TO MEN TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN POINT FOUR
FROM WHAT WAS PRESENTED TO
EIGHTEEN TO TWENTY EIGHT FEET
GROUND FLOOR GROUND FLOOR WITH
UH AND RETAIN THE CURRENT
SETBACKS FOR THE UPPER FLOOR NO
TBD WHAT THOSE SETBACKS WOULD
BE AND TO REQUEST A STAFF
RECOMMENDATION FOR UPPER YES
BEFORE PRESENTATION TO COUNCIL
MR LETTER.
THAT'S WHAT I SAID OK I WE
READY FOR A VOTE OK WE'RE READY
TO VOTE ON THE AMENDMENT.
THIS IS THE AMENDMENT TO THE
MOTION WAS MOTION THAT WOULD
MODIFY THE MINIMUM OF 18 FEET
FROM BACK OF CURB ALONG TRANSIT
CORRIDORS TO A MAXIMUM
OF TWENTY EIGHT FEET FROM BACK
OF CURB UNLESS THE RIGHT OF WAY
EXCEEDS THAT IN WHICH IT WOULD
REQUIRE A ZERO FOUR FLAT LINE
AND THAT APPLIES TO THE FIRST
FLOOR AND WITHOUT ANY OTHER
CHANGES I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
THE ZERO TO FIFTEEN WOULD THEN
CONTINUE TO APPLY TO UPPER
STORIES IF THIS ONLY APPLIES TO
THE FIRST FLOOR UNTIL SOME
OTHER MODIFICATION WAS MADE.
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT UM,
PLANETA LEO AND MR KELLY SAID
THEY WOULD WORK ON CLARIFYING
THAT BETWEEN NOW AND WHEN THIS
GOES TO COUNCIL TO THE FIRST
FLOOR BUT YOU DID NOT GIVE THEM
DIRECTION.
WHAT IS YOUR INTENTION FOR OH I
THOUGHT SORRY I MISUNDERSTOOD.
>> DON'T MISUNDERSTAND
PROCEDURALLY IT'S JUST MORE
DESIRABLE FOR US TO CRAFT
SOMETHING THAT'S VOTED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION INSTEAD
OF SOMETHING WE COME UP WITH
BETWEEN NOW AND THEN.
YEAH YEAH.
I FIND THIS TO THE FIRST FOR MY
QUESTION IS I DON'T WHAT
HAPPENS UP ABOVE.
YEAH YEAH OK COMMISSIONER SO
I'LL BE HELPFUL WHAT HAPPENED
BUT WHAT IS THE ACCEPTABLE
ENCROACHMENT JUSTICE RIGHT SO I
WAS GOING TO MAYBE MAKE I'LL
TRY TO BE HELPFUL TO FINISH
LINE HERE BUT 50 PERCENT OF THE
SETBACK ISN'T IT.
SO IF YOU'RE EIGHTEEN YOU'RE
GOING TO ENCOURAGE NINE FEET OR
THE LIKELIHOOD I MEAN I WOULD
GO ALL THE WAY TO THE ZERO LINE
TO THE EXTENSION BECAUSE YOU
STILL IN MOST CASES HAVE YOU
KNOW, YOU WOULD HAVE SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN ZERO AND TWENTY FEET
RELATIVE TO THAT CURB TO
PROPERTY LINE FOR SOME
INTERMITTENT TREES WITH NO
BUILDING ABOVE.
THAT'S A CONSIDERATION TO
ALLOWING IT.
BUT THE IDEAL SCENARIO IS THAT
IN ALL THE BUILDINGS ABOVE GO
TO THE ZERO PROPERTY LINE.
ALTERNATIVELY, IF YOU WANT TO
GIVE MORE SPACE FOR CANOPY,
CONSIDER SOMETHING THAT YOU
WOULD UNDERSTAND A TRAIT LIKE
IF IT'S SPACK IT FIFTY OR
SEVENTY PERCENT OF THAT SET
BACK CAN ENCROACH WHICH IS
SIMILAR TO WHAT WAS USED IN
PROJECTS HAVE TO AVERAGE OUT TO
A CERTAIN SET BACK MIGHT BE
ANOTHER WAY TO CONSIDER IT.
WE ALREADY HAVE THAT IN OUR UDC
IS AVERAGING THE SET BACK
OF THE ABOVE FLOORS TO FIVE
FEET OR SOMETHING JUST.
JUST TO CLARIFY, I'M JUST
ADDING TO CONVERSATION ANOTHER
FRIENDLY MOTION BUT THOSE ARE
LIKE TOOLS RELATIVE TO THAT
RESOURCE THEY COULD CONSIDER
AND I WOULD NOT SUGGEST
LIMITING IT TO THE GROUND FOR
ONLY YOU ARE GOING TO NEGATE
YOU DON'T KNOW THE
CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH YOU
WOULD STILL BE ABLE TO
ACCOMPLISH WHAT THE FIRST
SETBACK BACK IS TRYING TO
ACCOMPLISH
.
SO I I WOULD SUGGEST THAT BY
TRYING TO DO THAT IT'S JUST
ADDING A COMPLICATION TO WHAT
YOU'RE TRYING TO SORT OUT IN
THAT CASE YOU COULD MEET THAT
SETBACK REQUIREMENT THAT THAT
UPPER STOREYS COULD PROJECT YOU
WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO ATTAIN A
TREE CANOPY.
YOU MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO DO BUS
SERVICES LIKE SO I I GUESS MY
TWO CENTS IS LIKE THIS SEEMS TO
BE A MORE ABSOLUTE DECISION
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
DO YOU WANT TO PROVIDE THAT
SPACE?
IF SO, THAT SPACE SHOULD BE A
COMPLETELY VERTICAL TO GIVE THE
RIGHT FLEXIBILITY.
IT'S OK AS I SAID IF YOU DON'T
BELIEVE THAT SPACE IS IMPORTANT
AND THOSE TIGHT RIGHT AWAYS ARE
APPROPRIATE, I WOULD SUGGEST
YOU JUST VOTE AGAINST IT.
I THINK I THINK IT WOULD ADD TO
THE TO THE PURPOSE OF TRYING TO
MAKE IT CLEAR THIS DOES NOT
MAKE CLEAR TO PETITIONER'S.
THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME.
AND I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT IF
THE REASON AND THE REASON THAT
I AM SUPPORTIVE OF THIS IS FOR
FUTURE FLEXIBILITY, FOR
ACQUISITION AND THAT
COMPLICATED NOW IF GROUND FLOOR
IS SET BACK APPROPRIATELY AT
THE UPPER FLOORS OR NOT OK, SO
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT DOES NOT
INCLUDE A STIPULATION FOR A
DIFFERENTIAL BETWEEN THE GROUND
FLOOR AND THE FLOORS ABOVE
PROTUBERANCES.
SO WE ARE STILL USING 18 FEET
AS A MINIMUM AND TWENTY EIGHT
FEET IS THE MAXIMUM.
YES, I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A
VOTE ON THAT SO COMMISSIONER BE
YES COMMISSIONER SAUV YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YEP.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE IS ABSTAINING
.
COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
MR MILLS.
YES COMMISSIONER.
WHICH YES.
MOTION IS MODIFIED SO WE'RE
BACK INTO DISCUSSION OF THE
MODIFIED MOTION.
ANYONE ANY OTHER COMMENTS,
QUESTIONS, DISCUSSION.
RIGHT.
IT SEEMS WE'RE READY FOR A ROLL
CALL VOTE ON THE OVERALL
MOTION.
COMMISSIONER SAUV NO CHABON'S
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK NO.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK NO.
COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
WHICH NO COMMISSIONER WHETHER
COMMISSIONER.
IT BE YES I DO MATH THE MOTION
WHICH NO COMMISSIONER WHETHER
FAILS.
IT BE YES I DO MATH THE MOTION
NO IT DOESN'T.
FAILS.
SO THIS IS ONE OF THOSE YES.
NO IT DOESN'T.
IT'S ONE OF THOSE SITUATIONS I
SO THIS IS ONE OF THOSE YES.
LAST KNOW JUST LOOK AT UM WE
IT'S ONE OF THOSE SITUATIONS I
COULD WELCOME COMMISSIONER
LAST KNOW JUST LOOK AT UM WE
LEVAK COMMISSIONER LEA I'M
COULD WELCOME COMMISSIONER
NOTICING THAT IT IS AFTER 11:00
LEVAK COMMISSIONER LEA I'M
PM YOU WOULD NEED TO TAKE A
NOTICING THAT IT IS AFTER 11:00
VOTE TO TAKE UP THIS ITEM.
PM YOU WOULD NEED TO TAKE A
I PROCEED WITH THAT OR SHALL WE
VOTE TO TAKE UP THIS ITEM.
WAIT FOR COMMISSIONER LEA TO
I PROCEED WITH THAT OR SHALL WE
RETURN?
WAIT FOR COMMISSIONER LEA TO
>> YOU DECIDE WELL, I GO FIND
RETURN?
HIM.
>> YOU DECIDE WELL, I GO FIND
OK, SO AS A REMINDER, IF WE
HIM.
WANT TO TAKE UP ANY NEW
OK, SO AS A REMINDER, IF WE
BUSINESS AFTER 11:00 WE
WANT TO TAKE UP ANY NEW
ACTUALLY HAVE TO VOTE TO DO
BUSINESS AFTER 11:00 WE
THAT.
ACTUALLY HAVE TO VOTE TO DO
WE CAN ALSO VOTE TO NOT DO THAT
THAT.
IN WHICH CASE IT WOULD MOVE TO
WE CAN ALSO VOTE TO NOT DO THAT
UNFINISHED BUSINESS ON YOUR
IN WHICH CASE IT WOULD MOVE TO
NEXT AGENDA WHICH IS TO KNOW
UNFINISHED BUSINESS ON YOUR
SEPTEMBER 19TH.
NEXT AGENDA WHICH IS TO KNOW
OK, I'M GOING TO I'M GOING TO
SEPTEMBER 19TH.
LET OUR CHAIR WELCOME BACK
.
SO WE WERE MENTIONING WHILE YOU
WERE COMING BACK THAT WAS TO
REQUIRE THAT IT IS AFTER ELEVEN
O'CLOCK TO START CONSIDERATION
OF ANOTHER ITEM WOULD REQUIRE
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS TO DO
SO.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO BE
PRETTY EFFICIENT WITH THIS BUT
IT'S UP TO THE COMMISSION TO
TAKE THAT VOTE TO DECIDE IF YOU
WANT TO DO THAT.
IF NOT IT WILL BE FOR THE NEXT
AGENDA.
OK, CAN WE JUST GET A QUICK
SHOW OF HANDS?
IS THAT OK?
A VOICE VOTE WOULD BE FINE.
OK VOICE VOTE FOR STAYING AND
HEARING US LAST ITEM ON BYELAWS
I
OK AND THEN THOSE OPPOSED OH
OK.
>> HI WE WILL GO RIGHT MOVING
ON TO TEN OTHER BUSINESS THIS
IS PLANNING COMMISSION LAW
REVIEWS MODIFICATIONS TO
CHAPTER EIGHT AND BY LAW
AMENDMENTS THE THIS IS GOING TO
HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION BUT
MR. LUNNER YES.
PRETTY QUICK.
SO WE HAD A PRETTY LONG
DISCUSSION PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE
BYLAWS.
THIS HAS BEEN BOUNCING AROUND
WHILE WE'RE TRYING TO GET
MAJORITY OF YOU AT A MEETING TO
TAKE ACTION AND THERE ARE TWO
PROPOSED MOTIONS HERE.
ONE OF THE PROPOSED CHANGES
THAT YOU WERE INTERESTED IN WAS
REDUCING THE MINIMUM REQUIRED
VOTES FOR AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
ON A PETITION EITHER AT THIS
TABLE OR TO PROCEED TO PLANNING
COMMISSION FROM SIX TO FIVE.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT WOULD
REQUIRE A AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER
EIGHT OF THE CITY CODE .
I HAVE SHARED WITH YOU SOME
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS THAT WOULD
ACCOMPLISH THAT AS WELL AS TO
SOME OTHER AMENDMENTS THAT WERE
RECOMMENDED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
SO THE FIRST ACTION THAT I
WOULD SUGGEST THAT YOU CONSIDER
IS RECOMMENDING THOSE
AMENDMENTS.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT.
YOU'RE NOT HOLDING A PUBLIC
HEARING, FOR EXAMPLE, BECAUSE
THIS IS NOT YOU RECOMMENDING
LAND USE A PETITION TO THE CITY
COUNCIL.
YOU'RE JUST RECOMMENDING A
CHANGE TO CHAPTER EIGHT WHICH
YOU DON'T TECHNICALLY HAVE A
ROLE IN.
IT'S JUST SOMETHING YOU'RE
ASKING FOR.
AND SO THAT'S WHY IT'S
PRESENTED AT THIS MANNER ON THE
AGENDA IF THAT YOU WERE
INTERESTED IN REQUESTING THE
CITY COUNCIL TO DO THAT, IT
WOULD BE AN APPROPRIATE TIME TO
MAKE A MOTION AND SECOND ON A
MOTION AND VOTE IT UP OR DOWN
OK AND THEN THE SECOND PIECE
OF THAT IF YOU DECIDE THAT YOU
WANT TO MOVE FORWARD WITH THAT,
I WOULD PROPOSE THAT WE
POSTPONE ADOPTION OF THE BYLAWS
BECAUSE WE COULDN'T REALLY
TECHNICALLY APPROVE THOSE
BYLAWS UNTIL THAT ORDINANCE
CHANGES.
THAT'S OK BECAUSE YOU HAD A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT CONFLICT
OF INTEREST POSSIBILITIES AND
THE LIKE AND POSTPONING THAT
CONSIDERATION.
THE BYLAWS UNTIL THE SEPTEMBER
19TH MEETING WILL GIVE ME THE
OPPORTUNITY TO INVITE OUR VERY,
VERY EXCELLENT DEPUTY CITY
ATTORNEY KEVIN MACDONALD TO
COME AND HAVE THAT CONVERSATION
WITH SOME OF THE IDEAS,
THOUGHTS, PITFALLS, FEARS THAT
COULD DEVELOP AS PART OF THAT
DISCUSSION.
SO I WOULD RECOMMEND BOTH THOSE
MOTIONS THAT YOU DO PROPOSE THE
CHANGES TO CITY COUNCIL GET
THAT BALL ROLLING AND WE
POSTPONE ADOPTION OF THE BYLAWS
SO THAT WE CAN HAVE THAT
DISCUSSION AT THE 19TH.
>> OK, THANK YOU, MR. LUTTER.
THE PROPOSED MOTION NO.
ONE IS THAT I MOVE TO THAT THE
ATASH PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO
THE CHAPTER EIGHT OF THE CITY
CODE OR REFER TO THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR CONSIDERATION AS A
REQUEST FROM THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
CAN I HAVE MOTION TO ACT ON THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS?
CHAPTER EIGHT MOVE BY MR
SALVESON SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS' IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION, COMMISSIONER
EVANS?
JUST ONE SMALL CORRECTION IN
THE LAST SENTENCE OF SECTION
ONE POINT ONE SEVEN FIVE
PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP
THERE'S NO USE OF THE GENDERED
TERM, HE I WILL UPDATE THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
I HAD ONE OTHER QUESTION IN
THAT SAME PARAGRAPH IT SAYS THE
TERMS OF OFFICE MEMBERS SHALL
BEGIN ON THE FIRST DAY OF JULY
NEARS THE DATE OF YOUR
APPOINTMENT.
IS THERE SOMEWHERE ELSE IN HERE
WHERE IT TALKS ABOUT AN
APPOINTMENT LIKE COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE WHO IS MAYBE NOT IN
THIS INSTANCE BUT LIKE SOMEBODY
WHO'S WAITING FOR THEIR
POSITION MID-TERM AND IS
REPLACED MID-TERM?
YEAH, I CAN LOOK AT THAT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S BEEN A
PROBLEM.
I THINK A LOT OF THIS LANGUAGE
WAS ACTUALLY STRUCTURED AROUND
THE ORIGINAL CREATION OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
YOU'LL NOTE, FOR EXAMPLE, THERE
WAS A LOT OF LANGUAGE ABOUT
STAGGERED TERMS AND THE
CREATION OF THOSE AND I WAS
PROPOSING ELIMINATING THOSE
BECAUSE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
HAS BEEN CREATED AT THIS POINT
SO I CAN LOOK AT THAT TO SEE IF
THERE NEEDS TO BE FLEXIBILITY.
TYPICALLY IT DOES HAPPEN.
TERMS DO OFTEN AND AROUND THE
1ST OF JULY BUT I GUESS AS PART
OF THE ATTORNEY REVIEW I CAN
POSE THAT QUESTION TO SEE IF
THAT SHOULD BE BROADENED.
IT OBVIOUSLY IS NOT A BARRIER
FOR THE CITY COUNCIL TO APPOINT
MEMBERS OUTSIDE OF THAT IT
SEEMS ODD FOR US TO ADOPT
SOMETHING THAT WE ALREADY KNOW
WE OPERATE IN VIOLATION OF SO
WE COULD JUST CROSS IT OUT OR
YEAH, I CAN FIRST DAY OF A
MONTH SOON AFTER THAT I MIGHT
GET I'M HAPPY TO YOU THAT IT'S
GOT TO BE FOR PROGRESSIVE'S THE
CITY COUNCIL.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WHICH TO THAT
POINT SO WE'RE STILL IN SECTION
ONE SEVEN SIX SO SECTION ONE
ONE SEVENTY SIX NAME
ORGANIZATION SO THE COMMISSION
SHALL ORGANIZE.
NO, NO THAT'S NOT IT.
WHEREVER IT IS WE COULD JUST
MAKE IT THE NEXT PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING AFTER
APPROVAL BY COUNCIL BECAUSE
THAT IS EFFECTIVELY WHAT
HAPPENS.
THEY GET APPROVED AND THEN THEY
TAKE THE OATH OF OFFICE AND
THEN THEY ARE SEATED
THEREAFTER.
SO THAT WOULD JUST MAKE IT EASY
AND THEN IT WOULD REMOVE JULY
BECAUSE IF IT HAPPENS IN JULY
IT'LL HAPPEN IN JULY.
THAT HAPPENS IN AUGUST.
YEAH, I THINK A CHANGE LIKE
THAT WOULD BE GOOD.
ANOTHER OTHER DISCUSSION I
THINK THAT SO PROCEDURAL
SPEAKING ARE WE MAKING AN
AMENDMENT OR ARE WE JUST YOU
VOTING ON THIS MOTION THAT
WOULD HAVE THE EFFECT OF YOU
SENDING US TO THE CITY COUNCIL
AND SAY PLEASE MAKE THESE
CHANGES SO THE CHANGES JUST TO
AFFIRM THE CHANGES ARE AS
PRESENTED WITH GENDER
NEUTRALITY FIXING THAT HIS TERM
AND I'M GOING TO WORK WITH THE
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE PROBABLY ON
SOME MORE GENERAL LANGUAGE THAT
IS AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE AFTER
APPOINTMENT TO THAT LEVEL.
OK, PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL GO TO A VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
AY AY AY AND HE OPPOSED THE
MOTION CARRIES LET'S MOVE ON TO
PROPOSE MOTION NO TO A MOVE
THAT THE FOLLOWING CHANGES ARE
REFERRED TO THE CITY ATTORNEY
FOR REVIEW THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS INCLUDING THE DRAFT
BYLAWS PRESENTED AT THIS
MEETING AND THAT THE PROPOSED
AMENDED BYLAWS BE PRESENTED
BACK TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR ADDITIONAL REVIEW ON
SEPTEMBER 19TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE CAN I HAVE
MOTION TO ACT ON THE PROPOSED
BY LAW AMENDMENTS OF MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER RIGHTS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS'
DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY HI.
HI AND HE OPPOSED MY MOTION.
>> I GET TO DO THAT ELEVEN
O'CLOCK MOTION NEXT WEEK I
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
YOUR FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO PRESENT TO THE
COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR SIX IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RIGHT HAND FOR YOUR FUTURE IF
VIEWING THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING IDEE
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
TELEVISION BACKGROUND SOUNDS
THAT WE MAY HEAR MORE CLEARLY
AND FOR OTHER METHOD PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
I SEE NO ONE.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE CURRENTLY NO HANDS
RAISED.
>> I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT
MOVING ON THE COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS IS THERE ANY
COMMISSION PROPOSAL?
>> BUSINESS COMMISSIONER
SALVAJE WE SEE THINGS A LITTLE
RELATED I'D LIKE TO PUT ON
COMMISSION BUSINESS A REVIEW
OF OUR OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS
WITHIN OUR RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS AND TO THE HOUSING
POINTS I AM HELPING ORGANIZE A
SERIES OF EVENTS NEXT WEEK AND
I WANT TO INVITE ALL THE
COMMISSIONERS AND LISTENERS TO
CALL HOUSE PARTY A COUPLE
OF THE EVENTS MAYBE TO
HIGHLIGHT RELATIVE TO THIS
THERE'S A COFFEE WITH A LOT
OF CITY EMPLOYEES ON TUESDAY
MORNING WEDNESDAY EVENING A
SEVERAL UM STUDENTS ARE
FACILITATING A ENGAGEMENT
SESSION AROUND HOUSING THEY
WERE ABLE TO MEET WITH
INTERFACE FOR A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND SO LOOKING FORWARD TO
SHARING SOME OF THOSE OUTCOMES
WITH THEM.
SIMILARLY, I WILL REPEAT THAT
SATURDAY AT THE ANNEX.
SO BOTH OF THOSE ARE AT THE
LIBERTY ANNEX FOR OUR GUESTS
DOWNTOWN.
AND FINALLY ONE THERE'S MANY
EVENTS BUT THE OTHER ONE I
MIGHT RECOMMEND YOU TO IS
THERE'S GOING TO BE A PHONE
BOOTH AT THE DOWNTOWN AREA
DISTRICT LIBRARY INVITING
PEOPLE TO RECORD THEIR STORIES
ABOUT STRUGGLING TO FIND
HOUSING OR POSITIVE ACTIONS
OF HOUSING.
SO WE'LL HAVE QUALITATIVE DATA
TO TRANSCRIBE AND SIMILARLY
SHARE FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
.
SO I INVITE EVERYBODY TO
PARTICIPATE.
THANK YOU.
SOUNDS LIKE A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
TO VOICE AND GET INPUT.
COMMISSIONER MILLS' THINK THAT
WE CAN ALSO ADD TO THE ISSUE
THE NEXT TIME WE DO THE UDC BIG
I DON'T KNOW THE LETTER CHANGES
EDITING TABLE FIVE POINT TWENTY
NINE DASH ONE TO ACCOMMODATE
SUBTRACTIONS IN BUILDINGS UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
CAN YOU REPEAT THE TABLE?
NO, JUST ONE MORE TIME FIVE
POINT TWENTY NINE DASH ONE AND
YOU MIGHT JUST REFERENCE THE
BURTON ROAD PROPOSAL THAT WE
THOUGHT TONIGHT THAT ABOUT WHY
WE ADDED THAT ON BUT I THINK
IT'S YEAH.
THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER WHITE,
CAN I REQUEST THAT WE CREATE A
UNIVERSITY WEBSITE PAGE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND CAN I
REQUEST THAT WE ADD UPDATES TO
A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO THE
WEEK OF EMAIL DELIVERY SO THAT
PEOPLE CAN SUBSCRIBE AND
RECEIVE UPDATES?
YES, BOTH OF THOSE WILL HAPPEN
ACTUALLY BOTH OF THOSE ARE
UNDERWAY AND HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSED.
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF WHETHER
WE HOST THE CITY WEBSITE OR
STANDALONE WEBSITE KEESING OUT
A FEW DETAILS.
THANKS FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS?
IF NOT, WE'RE MOVING ON TO A
GERMAN MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SMELLS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
LITCH.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I WE
ARE ADJOURNED.
>> THANKS GUYS.
GOOD JOB